[
	{
		"Title":"Basics",
		"Text":[
			"●Crouching reduces your visible area to the ghost, and allows you to see the floor in dark areas",
    		"",
			"Sanity",
    		"  ●Sanity is a parameter which determines a number of factors during gameplay. Sanity begins at 100% at the start of a game and decreases as it progresses. The lower the average sanity, the more likely a ghost is to perform certain actions",
			"",
    		"  ●There are two main readings of sanity in the game: the individual sanity of each player, and the average team sanity of all players. These values can be read at any time on the truck's sanity monitor in all difficulty modes except Nightmare and Insanity, where the screen will be damaged and sanity readings do not function. Each player's displayed individual sanity fluctuate by up to ±2%, while the displayed average sanity has a larger fluctuation depending on the number of players. This fluctuation is only applied to the numbers shown on the screen in the truck, and the actual value used for the game's calculations does not have this fluctuation applied. For example, if a 3-player game has an actual average sanity of 65%, the displayed average sanity will fluctuate between 59% to 71%. This sanity fluctuation counts towards certain actions being performed by the ghost. For example, if the displayed average sanity is below the ghost's hunt sanity threshold, it may decide to initiate a hunt even if the sanity fluctuates again to a higher level",
    		"  ●Once an exit door has been opened, player's sanities will begin to be able to drop, subject to certain factors listed below. Sanity affects several gameplay aspects such as interactions, ghost events, hunts, and flickering lights; lower average sanity results in increasing relative frequency of such paranormal activity, though as there is a high degree of randomness in these occurrences to begin with, this may not always be readily apparent over the course of an investigation. Individual sanities are not taken into account for these effects in most cases, meaning that a player with a high sanity level going inside may still face more aggressive behavior from the ghost if their partners staying outside all have near zero sanity",
    		"  ●Dead players' sanities are not included when calculating the average team sanity",
    		"  ●All ghosts have a specific hunt sanity threshold below which they will be able to attempt a hunt. The Banshee is the only ghost which uses its target's sanity to decide whether to hunt, while other effects still use average sanity",
    		"  ●When a player reaches 0% sanity, nothing noteworthy occurs, save for the completion of the \"Reach 0 sanity\" Daily Task if available and not yet completed that day. Sanity cannot go into the negatives",
			"",
    		"  ●Whether passive sanity drain is applied depends on the status of the lights in the room. In most rooms, sanity drain will be prevented by turning on the room's \"main lights\", these generally being ceiling light sources controlled by wall switches, rather than lamps or televisions, of which will still provide visibility when turned on but will not block sanity drain. In larger rooms with multiple dark spots (e.g. most hallways in Sunny Meadows Mental Institution), sanity drain will not be blocked entirely even with the lights on, but will instead be reduced to 80% of the normal rate. Additionally, being near a firelight will reduce sanity drain by a variable percentage based on the tier of the item, even if the room's lights are off",
    		"  ●Examples of situations that will not prevent passive sanity drain include:",
    		"    ●Holding a lit flashlight of any type",
    		"    ●Standing in front of an active computer, even though it technically counts as a light source",
    		"    ●Turning up the game's brightness",
    		"  ●Protections against passive sanity drain do not apply to other types of drains",
			"",
    		"  ●The table below lists the drain rates when the \"main lights\" are off:",
    		"    ●Map size - Drain during Setup(%/s), Normal drain(%/s)",
    		"    ●Small - 0.09, 0.12",
    		"    ●Medium - 0.05, 0.08",
    		"    ●Large - 0.03, 0.05",
    		"  ●The values above are multiplied depending on the difficulty:",
    		"    ●1x rate of decay for Amateur",
    		"    ●1.5x rate of decay for Intermediate",
    		"    ●2x rate of decay for Professional, Nightmare, and Insanity",
    		"    ●0x - 2x rate of decay for Custom",
    		"  ●The multipliers above are increased by 1 if playing with Blood Moon weather",
    		"  ●Playing solo will further halve the rate of sanity drain",
			"",
    		"  ●When a player dies, all other living players will lose 15% sanity",
    		"  ●Ghosts can drain the player's sanity in several ways:",
    		"    ●For all ghosts, if the target for most ghost events collides with the ghost or smoke ball, causing it to disappear, that player loses 10% of their sanity",
    		"    ●If the Banshee performs a singing event on its hunt target and they collide with the ghost in this manner, they lose 15% sanity instead",
    		"    ●Colliding with the Oni during any form of ghost event deducts 20% sanity instead",
    		"    ●The Jinn will occasionally use an ability that drains the sanity of a nearby player by 25%, which can only be used if the breaker is turned on. The Yurei has a somewhat similar ability, with a rate of 15%. The Yurei's ability is done when it fully slams a door and is applied to nearby players",
    		"    ●Being cursed by the Moroi, caused by a response on the parabolic microphone or Spirit Box, causes the player to double their passive sanity drain, and lights will not negate this sanity drain",
    		"    ●Being within 10 metres of a manifested Phantom while in pseudo line-of-sight (where heartbeats play) further drops the player's sanity at a rate of approximately 0.5%/s",
    		"    ●When the Poltergeist uses its ability to throw multiple items, the sanity of nearby players will decrease by 2% times the number of objects thrown",
			"",
    		"  ●Sanity can be directly gained or lost through certain equipment:",
    		"    ●Sanity Pills: Restores between 0% to 100% of individual sanity depending on the difficulty over a period of time",
    		"    ●Haunted Mirror: Each usage costs 20% sanity or 7.5% per second, whichever is higher",
    		"    ●Monkey Paw: Using I wish to be sane sets all players' sanities to 50%, and increases the passive sanity drain rate by 50%. Using any weather wish reduces sanity by 25%",
    		"    ●Music Box: Being within 2.5 metres of an active music box drains sanity by 2.5% per second",
    		"    ●Ouija Board: Each question asked deducts a certain amount of sanity from the player, depending on the type of question",
    		"    ●Summoning Circle: Each candle lit deducts 16% sanity from nearby players",
    		"    ●Tarot Cards: Drawing the card The Sun restores the player's sanity to 100%, while drawing the card The Moon drains the player's sanity completely, setting it at 0%. In addition, The Wheel of Fortune, can either add 25% sanity (if the card burns green), or deduct 25% (if the card burns red)",
    		"    ●Voodoo Doll: Each pin deducts 5% sanity, except for the heart pin which deducts 10%",
			"",
    		"  ●During the Setup Phase, sanity cannot go below 50%, regardless of the source of sanity drain",
			"",
    		"Map",
    		"  ●Players can visit several maps to execute a contract. Each investigation area is accessible after collecting and using the Main Door Key. Maps will come with a randomized weather type",
			"",
    		"  ●The map type affects money and experience gain, sanity drain, and light limits. Most maps require the player to reach a certain level to unlock them. One can play on a map they have yet to unlock by joining the lobby of another player that has unlocked that map",
			"",
    		"  ●Each map has a maximum number of lights that can be turned on. This depends on map size:",
    		"    ●Small maps: 9",
    		"    ●Medium maps: 8",
    		"    ●Large maps: 7",
    		"  ●If the limit is exceeded, the fuse box will instantly trip (turn off), as well as all light switches and lamps. This refers to the number of interactable light switches and lamps on the map, and not the physical number of light bulbs or tubes",
			"",
    		"  ●All maps are divided into \"inside\" (investigation area) and \"outside\" areas. The investigation area is further split into rooms, among which one will be the ghost room",
			"",
    		"  Investigation area",
    		"    ●The investigation area (officially, the location) is bounded by physical barriers and one or more exit for all maps. The ghost can only be present within the investigation area; the ghost cannot exit or spawn outside the investigation area. Some maps also contain outdoor areas where the ghost may be present:",
    		"      ●Maple Lodge Campsite and Camp Woodwind: Outdoor camping area (limited by the wooden gates)",
    		"      ●Sunny Meadows Mental Institution/Restricted: Square courtyard",
    		"      ●Point Hope: Balcony",
    		"    ●For all other maps, only indoor areas are considered part of the investigation area; this includes hallways and corridors",
			"",
    		"  Rooms",
    		"    ●Each map has a fixed number of rooms. Mechanics-wise, rooms may be segmented differently for the ghost than what is visually perceived by players. Rooms separated by walls may be merged to be considered as one room, while rooms that are not separated by walls may actually be regarded as multiple rooms. The Ouija Board's answers to the ghost's current location, as well as the location of Ghost Orbs, depend on each room's defined boundaries",
			"",
    		"    Rooms not separated by visible walls",
    		"      ●Some rooms that seem like a single room are broken down into multiple rooms with no apparent visual barrier. For example:",
    		"        ●The Kitchen and Dining Room in Bleasdale Farmhouse are actually two different rooms despite no wall or barrier visually separating them",
    		"        ●The hallways on each level of Brownstone High School are divided into three separate sections: the left, front, and right",
    		"        ●In 10 Ridgeview Court, upon first entering the house, what appears to be one room actually consists of three different rooms: The Foyer, Dining Room, and Living Room",
    		"        ●In Maple Lodge Campsite, the outdoor paths and tenting areas are split up into several \"rooms\" not including the tents themselves",
			"",
    		"    Rooms composed of multiple walled rooms",
    		"      ●Some favourite rooms actually consist of two or more visually-distinct, walled rooms connected by doorways. For example:",
    		"        ●Nearly all smaller bathrooms or storage rooms that are attached to a larger bedroom are considered as part of the same room as the bathroom, except for the Grafton Farmhouse storage (which is bigger than the connected bedroom)",
    		"        ●In 42 Edgefield Road, the \"Basement\" room consists of both the hallway and the attached storage room",
    		"        ●In Brownstone High School, each Science Class Room (i.e., Science Class Room 1, 2, 3, and 4) is a room that consists of two rooms separated by a wall and a door",
    		"        ●On the Prison's second floor, the Infirmary as a room actually consists of two rooms that contain medical beds",
    		"      ●In any favourite room that consists of two or more walled rooms, Ghost Orbs may appear in any of the walled rooms, and the ghost can spawn for hunts in any of these rooms. This is essential to know, for example, to complete the crucifix objective",
			"",
    		"  Ghost room",
    		"    ●The ghost room is akin to the ghost's \"base\"; it will usually spawn in that room, and most ghosts will generally linger in or near this room, subject to randomness and ghost abilities",
			"",
    		"Ghost Room",
    		"  ●A ghost room, officially referred to as the favourite room, is a specific room in a map that the ghost will \"prefer\", or base specific actions upon. Those can be limited to whole rooms of a building but can also include hallways, some stairwells, enclosed areas, campsite tents, etc. Ghosts may leave their room while hunting or simply being more active due to a player's decreasing sanity, but in general, their activity will be localised to the favourite room and its immediate surroundings",
    		"  ●Finding the favourite room in itself is not an objective found on the Objective Board, however, it simplifies the task of identifying the type of ghost correctly and allows players to gain photo rewards more quickly. The favourite room remains the same per each game on all difficulty levels except for Professional, Nightmare, and Insanity. The favourite room plays a lesser role once the type of ghost has been identified correctly and will usually serve as a reference for player activity during hunts",
			"",
    		"  Favourite room",
    		"    ●Whenever a map is loaded in, one room in the area will be randomly selected as the favourite room. The favourite room is relevant for the following behaviour:",
    		"      ●The ghost will teleport to the favourite room at the end of every hunt and when a crucifix has successfully prevented a hunt",
    		"      ●The ghost will roam back to the room after certain conditions are satisfied",
    		"      ●Ghost Orbs, if the ghost has it as evidence, will be present in the favourite room",
    		"      ●Though The Mimic doesn't have Ghost Orb among its types of evidence, it will still provide it as its weakness",
    		"      ●The Haunted Mirror will show a view of the favourite room",
    		"      ●The Hermit tarot card and the \"I wish to trap the ghost\" wish from the Monkey Paw will teleport the ghost to the favourite room and temporarily trap it there",
    		"      ●The Yurei will be sent back to the favourite room and stay within it for 90 seconds after being affected with Incense outside of a hunt",
    		"  Ghost's current location/room",
    		"    ●As an invisible entity by default, ghosts can perform roaming simply to walk around. This can include roaming to another room; this does not change the favourite room. The following behaviour relates to where the ghost actually is:",
    		"      ●Ghosts will interact with objects in a certain radius around itself",
    		"      ●Ghosts always start a hunt from its current position (except for The Twins in some cases)",
    		"      ●Ghosts can initiate ghost events (naturally) if the player is within a certain range of the ghost",
    		"      ●For evidence to either be created and/or obtained, the ghost must be nearby (other than Ghost Orbs)",
    		"      ●Ouija Board responses always give the ghost's current room, not the favourite one",
    		"    ●Generally, ghosts will spend most of their time in the favourite room and will not roam far off. Still, they may move far away from their room if they have an ability that allows them to do so, or perform a ghost event on a player that is somewhat far from the ghost room (but not too far). These instances are technically not a \"roaming phase\", but the ghost may roam after performing these actions",
			"",
    		"  Changing favourite rooms",
    		"    ●Three criteria are used to determine whether the favourite room will change. Suppose the ghost performs a 'long roam' and ends up in a room that is not its current favourite. In that case, the ghost will perform a chance roll based on the Changing favourite room difficulty setting:",
    		"      ●None (Amateur, Intermediate): 0%",
    		"      ●Low (Professional): 33%",
    		"      ●Medium (Nightmare): 66%",
    		"      ●High (Insanity): 100%",
    		"    ●If the chance above succeeds, a second chance roll is performed on the complement of the average sanity (or insanity); for example, an average sanity of 80% has a 20% chance of succeeding. If both chances are successful, the favourite room will change to the ghost's current room",
    		"    The Banshee and the Goryo cannot change their favourite room by themselves, even with the \"Changing favourite room\" parameter set to High. Using a specific Monkey Paw wish can force them to change the favourite room once",
			"",
    		"  Disallowed favourite rooms",
    		"    ●Some maps have rooms such as corridors or hallways which cannot be chosen as the favourite room. The ghost can still roam into these rooms, provide evidence in these rooms, interact with items in or around the room, and spawn in these rooms during hunts or manifestations, but Ghost Orbs cannot be present in these rooms, the ghost will always fail its favourite room change roll if it ends up in one after a long roam, and it will not teleport to these rooms after a hunt",
    		"    ●The maps with such rooms are:",
    		"      ●Brownstone High School",
    		"        ●All hallways and staircases of both floors (not including Lobby)",
    		"      ●Maple Lodge Campsite",
    		"        ●Campsite A",
    		"        ●Campsite B",
    		"        ●North East Path",
    		"      ●Point Hope",
    		"        ●Bathroom Hallway",
    		"        ●Master Bedroom Hallway",
    		"        ●Child Bedroom Hallway",
    		"        ●Balcony",
    		"      ●Prison",
    		"        ●Main hallway (the entire stretch connecting both prison blocks up to the metal bars segregating the hallway and the cell blocks, as well as the attached staircase)",
    		"        ●Second floor corridor (the corridor connecting both staircases)",
    		"      ●Sunny Meadows Mental Institution/Restricted",
    		"        ●Foyer (only on the large version of the map)",
    		"        ●Both padded rooms",
    		"        ●All hallways and staircases of both floors (except Entrance Corridor)",
    		"        ●All inaccessible rooms",
			"",
    		"Evidence",
    		"  ●Evidences is used to determine which ghost is haunting the location. Each ghost has a unique combination of three pieces of evidence that determines which ghost is present. Each player can record pieces of evidence that has been uncovered in the Journal to thin down the possible ghosts, and determine the ghost once all three piece of evidence are collected",
    		"  ●In the game there are a number of items that count as photo evidence. Photo evidence can be counted by taking a photo of certain items with the photo camera",
    		"  ●More details about Evidences can be fount in specific tab",
			"",
    		"Equipment",
    		"  ●Equipment in Phasmophobia is used to determine the type of ghost inhabiting a location, or to complete optional objectives. Equipment can be bought using money that was received from successful investigations",
    		"  ●Ghosts disrupt nearby electronic equipment whenever they are visible, such as during a hunt or when they manifest (i.e. become visible while not hunting). Holding active electronic equipment during a hunt will attract nearby ghosts",
    		"  ●More details about Equipment can be fount in specific tab"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Ghost",
		"Text":[
			"●Each ghost will have a set of unique characteristics, including personal identifiers, abilities, and evidences. Players must investigate some of these aspects to correctly identify the ghost. The ghost can interact with its environment or cause ghost events, and even attempt to kill the player by initiating hunts",
			"",
    		"●Each ghost in a contract has a randomly generated unique identity consisting of the type of the ghost, gender, name, age, length of death, shyness (with respect to the Spirit Box), and a physical model that is determined at the start of the contract. Most of its general behavior (such as movement speed, hunting patterns, activity etc.) is based on the type of ghost, except for its willingness to respond to the spirit box in the presence of multiple people in the room, which is randomly set",
			"",
    		"●Each contract, one ghost will spawn within the map in a certain room. This room is very often the favorite room, and the ghost will wander back to it if not the case. After an exit door is opened for the first time, the ghost will be \"activated\" and be able to interact with the environment or the player. The ghost may stand still, roam or walk to another place, interact with objects and doors, use its abilities, and initiate ghost events or hunts. If a player attempts to enter the house without unlocking the exit door, the ghost will not be \"activated\" and cannot do interactions, ghost events, nor hunt, though some types of evidence (most notably Ghost Orbs) can be obtained. The ghost can however still be forced into initiating a cursed hunt using cursed possessions. Ghosts cannot exit the investigation area; they cannot walk out of the exit doors even if they are wide open. The following is a non-exhaustive list of \"states\" or \"phases\" that the ghost can enter (these terms are conjectural and may not be official):",
    		"  ●Idling: The ghost stays still",
    		"  ●Roaming: The ghost chooses to perform either a short roam or a long roam, which are both defined by a smaller or larger spherical area, respectively. It then randomly picks a waypoint within that sphere, then checks the path distance to that waypoint. If successful, the ghost walks to that point, else it repeats the steps if the path distance is too long. Short roams have a maximum of 3 metres, and long roams have a maximum of 12 metres",
    		"  ●Favorite room: The ghost returns to its favorite room",
    		"  ●Interaction: The ghost interacts with an object nearby",
    		"  ●Ghost event: The ghost performs a ghost event",
    		"  ●Hunt: The ghost initiates a hunt",
    		"  ●Ability: The ghost uses a specified ability, if it has any",
    		"  ●D.O.T.S: If the ghost has D.O.T.S Projector evidence, it will occasionally enter this state, and be visible via a D.O.T.S. Projector if it passes through its light",
    		"●It is important to note that certain phenomena often are generally not limited to one single type of ghost. For example, all ghosts can throw objects around in a room, manipulate doors, make Dirty Water appear in sinks, and present itself in any form. However, certain ghosts are more likely to exhibit certain behaviors than others or have unique abilities. For example, a Poltergeist will be more likely to throw objects and can throw several at once",
			"",
    		"Visibility",
    		"  ●In normal gameplay, ghosts are usually invisible and will only physically appear during (manifestation) ghost events and hunts. In a hunt, the ghost will flicker, repeatedly appearing and disappearing at a variable rate. For ghost events, the ghost can be fully visible, appear as a shadow, or have a dark translucent-like appearance. While the possible models a ghost can appear as depends on whether they're a female or male ghost, the ghost's specific model does not matter in determining what type of ghost it is",
    		"  ●Ghosts with the D.O.T.S Projector evidence can be visible while passing through a D.O.T.S Projector's light during a D.O.T.S state",
			"",
    		"Interference",
    		"  ●When a ghost manifests or hunts, all electronic equipment (brought in from the truck), such as flashlights and global chat, will malfunction within a 10 meter radius for most ghosts. Room lights may also flicker at the same distance",
			"",
    		"Sounds",
    		"  ●When a ghost event or hunt occurs, the ghost will produce a vocalization that may differ between ghost events (but not hunts). If it is walking during such events (or walks after stepping in salt), it will also produce footstep sounds. For most ghosts, these sounds can be heard from up to 20 meters away by the player",
    		"  ●Ghosts will also occasionally produce footstep sounds and \"paranormal sounds\" that can only be heard through a Parabolic Microphone. These paranormal sounds are different from ghost event/hunt vocalizations, while the footstep sounds are the same",
    		"  ●There are at least eight male and five female sounds produced by the ghosts during manifestations. There may be more that are not listed here:",
    		"    For males:",
    		"      ●Male \"death rattle\" (raspy gurgling) which is a semitone lower than the original",
    		"      ●A heavy moaning sound typical to zombies",
    		"      ●Three variants of breathing sounds: one deep (almost horn-like), another heavy and another one accompanied by words like \"help me\", \"run\", etc.",
    		"      ●Two variants of growling-croaking: one very low and tubular, another echoing",
    		"    For females:",
    		"      ●Female \"death rattle\" (raspy gurgling) which is a semitone higher than the original",
    		"      ●Two variants of the ghost humming certain tunes",
    		"      ●A choking and wheezing sound reminiscent of someone's heavy cough",
    		"      ●A weeping sound",
    		"      ●Child-like laughter",
    		"  ●Every contract, the ghost gets a random but specific hunting sound. In every following hunt it will use the very same sound again. Remembering this sound from a former hunt can help the player tell a hunt apart from a ghost event",
    		"  ●If a player is within 10 meters of the ghost and would be considered \"visible\" to the ghost when not considering furniture, the player will hear their own heartbeat. Note that this does not necessarily correlate with actual line-of-sight",
			"",
    		"●There are currently 24 types of ghosts in the game, appearing in the journal in the following order:",
    		"  Spirit    Wraith    Phantom",
    		"  Poltergeist  Banshee    Jinn",
    		"  Mare    Revenant    Shade",
    		"  Demon    Yurei    Oni",
    		"  Yokai    Hantu    Goryo",
    		"  Myling    Onryo    The Twins",
    		"  Raiju    Obake    The Mimic",
    		"  Moroi    Deogen    Thaye",
    		"●All ghosts have an equal chance of being chosen per contract in all difficulties, except the Deogen, that will not be chosen if the host is below Prestige 0, Level 30. Otherwise, it is normal and expected for the number of ghosts encountered by type to vary, the sums of which will roughly be shaped like a bell curve graph with an increasing number of rounds played. Historically, newly added ghosts had an increased chance of being chosen during the first few weeks of their introduction",
    		"●Depending on its type, the ghost will have unique strengths and weaknesses",
			"",
    		"●These characteristics are randomized for every contract and are unrelated to the ghost type",
			"",
    		"Gender",
    		"  ●There is a 50/50 chance of the ghost being either male or female",
			"",
    		"Length of death",
    		"  ●The length of death of a ghost (i.e. the age it would be today if it were still alive) is a randomly generated number between 50 (overlapping with their death age between 50 and 90) and 1000 years",
			"",
    		"Age",
    		"  ●The age of the ghost (at their time of death) is a randomly generated number between 10 and 90 years. Note that this is not correlated with the ghost model",
			"",
    		"Spirit box responsiveness",
    		"  ●If the ghost is indicated to respond only to \"people who are alone\", the ghost will only respond to the Spirit Box if there is only one player in the room when the question is asked. A ghost which responds to everyone means that the number of people in the room does not affect its ability to respond. This characteristic is not indicated if there is no setup time (e.g., on Professional and Nightmare difficulties). This characteristic is only relevant for ghosts with the Spirit Box evidence, and is not synonymous with ghost activity",
			"",
    		"Ghost's name",
    		"  ●The name of the ghost consists of their first (given) name and a surname. The first name is determined randomly according to their gender, while the surname is randomly chosen and not based on their gender. Saying the ghost's name near it has a chance of raising its activity level and cause it to interact with its surroundings"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Hunt",
		"Text":[
			"●The hunt is an in-game mechanic intended to complicate further investigation of a location by the player(s). During hunts, the ghost will materialize itself and proceed to roam around the location in order to kill one or more players. For the duration of the hunt, lights in the investigation area will flicker, all exit doors will become locked, and the ghost will cause all nearby electronic equipment to malfunction",
    		"●A cursed hunt is a variant of a hunt caused by cursed possessions. Mechanic-wise, cursed hunts are mostly similar to regular hunts",
			"",
    		"Standard protections",
    		"  ●Hunts cannot occur while the setup phase is ongoing. The duration of the setup phase by difficulty is as follows",
    		"    ●Difficulty - Duration of setup phase",
    		"    ●Amateur - 5 minutes",
    		"    ●Intermediate - 2 minutes",
    		"    ●Professional, Nightmare, Insanity - No setup phase",
    		"  ●The setup phase can be ended early if a cursed possession is used or activated",
    		"  ●Once a hunt ends, there is a minimum cooldown of 25 seconds before the ghost can attempt to initiate another hunt. This does not affect the activation of cursed hunts. Ghosts do not necessarily hunt immediately once this cooldown is over",
			"",
    		"Regular hunt requirements",
    		"  ●At least one player must be within the investigation area for a hunt to begin. All ghosts have a sanity hunt threshold below which they will be able to hunt, and some ghosts may have abilities which may modify the threshold, or even override it entirely",
    		"  ●Using \"trigger words\" or swearing does not increase the chance of a hunt",
			"",
    		"Hunt sanity thresholds",
    		"  ●For most ghosts, the average team sanity is used to determine whether the ghost can hunt. The average sanity is of all players who are alive, regardless of whether they are inside or outside the investigation area. Dead players do not count towards the average team sanity",
    		"  ●For most ghosts, the hunt sanity threshold is 50%; ghosts can choose to initiate hunts at random once the average sanity is at or below 50%. Generally, a lower average sanity increases the frequency of hunts, but other factors may affect this",
			"",
    		"Cursed hunts",
    		"  ●Cursed hunts can only be initiated directly by using cursed possessions. Cursed hunts always ignore the hunt sanity thresholds and cooldown between hunts; a cursed hunt can start immediately after a normal one, but a normal hunt respects the cooldown after a previous cursed hunt ends. If a cursed hunt is cancelled prematurely due to no one being inside, the cancelled cursed hunt will not count towards the cooldown timer",
			"",
    		"Activity",
    		"  ●During a hunt, the activity monitor will display level 10. However, the current activity level of a ghost does neither indicates nor relates to the ghost's chances of hunting. Moreover, a display of level 10 does not necessarily indicate an ongoing hunt",
			"",
    		"Preventing a hunt",
    		"  ●Some equipment can temporarily prevent hunts:",
    		"    ●At the point that the ghost attempts to initiate a hunt, if the ghost is within a crucifix's effective range, the hunt will fail. Each time a crucifix is used, the ghost must wait 25 seconds before attempting to initiate a hunt again",
    		"    ●A lit firelight, campfire or igniter within 4 meters of an Onryo will effectively act like a crucifix and prevent the ghost from hunting. The Onryo can however blow out the flame which may cause it to hunt, regardless of sanity level",
    		"    ●Lighting Incense within 3-5 metres of the ghost will prevent it from attempting to initiate further hunts for 60 seconds for a Demon, 180 seconds for a Spirit, and 90 seconds for all other ghosts",
    		"    ●Using the Monkey Paw's \"I wish to trap the ghost\" wish will prevent the ghost from hunting for 1 minute, along with other effects. However, a guaranteed hunt will happen immediately after",
    		"  ●A cursed hunt can only be prevented by a tier III crucifix with two charges remaining. Incense can still be used to \"blind\" the ghost as normal during cursed hunts",
			"",
    		"●Each hunt consists of a grace period (not to be confused with the cooldown between hunts) and the actual hunting phase. During the grace period, the ghost will remain invisible and still for a number of seconds, giving players a chance to escape before it begins chasing them. All exit doors lock at the beginning of the grace period, preventing players from entering or exiting the investigation area. The duration of this grace period depends on difficulty or the type of the hunt:",
    		"  ●Amateur: 5 seconds",
    		"  ●Intermediate: 4 seconds",
    		"  ●Professional: 3 seconds",
    		"  ●Nightmare: 2 seconds",
    		"  ●Insanity: 2 seconds",
    		"  ●Cursed hunt: 1 second",
    		"  ●Custom: 0 - 5 seconds",
    		"●The ghost cannot detect or see players during this grace period. Subsequent hunts after a cursed hunt, where not activated by a cursed possession again, are not \"true\" cursed hunts and hence revert to the difficulty-based grace period",
    		"●The duration of a hunt depends on the difficulty and the map size. These are as follows, excluding the grace period:",
    		"  ●Difficulty - Duration of hunt(Small map, Medium map, Large map)",
    		"  ●Amateur - 15 seconds, 30 seconds, 40 seconds",
    		"  ●Intermediate - 20 seconds, 40 seconds, 50 seconds",
    		"  ●Professional, Nightmare, Insanity - 30 seconds, 50 seconds, 1 minute",
    		"●A cursed hunt is longer than a regular hunt by 20 seconds. After a cursed hunt is initiated, all subsequent hunts in the same contract, whether regular or cursed, also retain this extended duration. The hunt duration is the same for all ghosts",
    		"●If the Kills extend hunts setting is not off, each successful kill will extend the current hunt duration:",
    		"  ●Difficulty - Added duration",
    		"  ●Professional, Nightmare, Insanity - 15 seconds",
    		"  ●Intermediate - 25 seconds",
    		"  ●Amateur - 35 seconds",
    		"●Using the Monkey Paw's \"I wish to leave\" wish will unlock all exit doors even during a hunt, but with temporary side effects",
    		"●Hunts always initiate from wherever the ghost is standing; it does not have to start from any specific room. Once the grace period begins, an EMF 4 signal will be emitted at the point where the ghost is standing",
			"",
    		"●Once the grace period ends, the ghost will proceed to either wander in a random direction, or chase a player. Ghosts cannot teleport during hunts",
    		"●Within the investigation area, the ghost is able to access practically all places that players can access. It may also phase through certain furniture such as doors, some beds, and some clutter. The ghost cannot physically enter closets, lockers and mini tents, though it can stand in front of (and appear to be partially inside) one",
			"",
    		"Wandering",
    		"  ●In a \"wandering\" (or \"roaming\") phase where the ghost is not aware of any player, the ghost randomly selects a waypoint on the map, moves to that waypoint, then repeats. The ghost always attempts to take the shortest path to its waypoint",
			"",
    		"Chasing phase",
    		"  ●If the ghost detects a player, its \"wandering\" phase will be disrupted and it will enter a \"chasing\" phase, setting a waypoint at the player's last known location. If it reaches the waypoint, it will repeat this action until it is unable to detect any player, upon which it will search in the immediate vicinity, before returning to its \"wandering\" phase. If multiple players are detected at the same time (such as immediately after the grace period ends), it will set a waypoint at the nearest player by straight-line distance",
			"",
    		"  ●The following actions attract the ghost:",
    		"    Being seen by the ghost",
    		"      ●Each player has a total of 6 tracking points, split into 2 groups of 3, each on the upper and lower parts of the hitbox. This is anchored to the player's current point-of-view. The ghost is considered to be able to see the player, or achieving line-of-sight (LoS), if it can see all 3 points of one group (e.g. seeing 2 upper group points and 2 lower group points does not count). The placement of these tracking points means that having the head poke through a closed closet will not allow the ghost to see non-VR players, but VR players could possibly be seen, since they are actually looking through the closet",
    		"      ●The ghost's vision is 360 degrees",
    		"      ●There is no maximum distance at which the ghost can see the player",
    		"      ●Each ghost model has the same \"head\" height. If the ghost is a crawling model, LoS will still be achieved as if the ghost was standing",
    		"      ●Most physical objects or structures, except throwable objects, will block LoS. This includes glass windows and doors, and cell walls and doors in Prison",
    		"    Voice communications",
    		"      ●During a hunt, ghosts can hear players up to 9 metres away on the same floor",
    		"      ●Whether the ghost can hear the player is dictated by their voice chat settings. When voice chat is activated, any sound above a certain volume, whether from the player talking or background noise, will attract the ghost within the specified distance",
    		"      ●Using global chat within 9 metres of the ghost, even without talking, will attract it to the player using it. This does not attract the ghost to other players; players outside the investigation area using global chat will not cause players inside to die",
    		"    Active electronic equipment",
    		"      ●The ghost will be attracted by any active electronic equipment held by players in their hand, placed on the VR toolbelt, or being worn on their head, within 7.5 metres of it on the same floor during a hunt. Items that do not make any noise such as flashlights or thermometers will still attract the ghost. Regular flashlights (but not UV flashlights) that are swapped into the inventory but still turned on will also attract the ghost",
    		"      ●Equipment dropped on the floor or offhand, as well as deactivated Head Gear that is still being worn, do not attract the ghost",
    		"      ●The player model always has a default, short shoulder flashlight (different from the ones collected from the truck wall). This small flashlight is always turned on and does not attract the ghost",
    		"      ●For comparison, the normal electronic interference range is 10 metres",
    		"    ●Voice communication and electronic detection are similar in terms of detection priority. If the ghost is considered to be on a different floor from the player, the ghost can only detect the player through LoS. Otherwise, the ghost will not be able to detect the player through other methods",
    		"    ●The following do not attract the ghost:",
    		"      ●Footsteps",
    		"      ●Door, closet and locker noises",
    		"      ●Electronics on the floor, even when turned on",
    		"      ●Electronics that are held and turned off",
    		"      ●Crucifixes",
    		"      ●Lit incense",
    		"      ●Firelights and glowsticks, even when lit",
    		"      ●Players outside the investigation area (except Deogen in some cases)",
    		"Special detection cases",
    		"  Waypoint memory between hunts",
    		"    ●During the hunt, the ghost will remember the last detected location of a player before the hunt ended, whether through sight, sound, or electronics. When a new hunt starts, the ghost first has a 50% chance to set a waypoint at this location. This may include the location of a player it killed. If there is no such instance or otherwise, the ghost will \"forget\" this location and proceed with either regular wandering or chasing",
    		"      ●This is not relevant when the ghost is not hunting; the ghost does not remember player locations outside of a hunt. It is theoretically safe to hide in a closet or locker indefinitely if the doors remain closed and the player avoids detection, since ghosts cannot walk into them",
    		"      ●The ghost can only remember one waypoint per hunt; the same waypoint does not carry across multiple hunts",
    		"      ●If the ghost is smudged, the waypoint is forgotten. Hence, the ghost also does not intentionally go to the last known player location from before the smudge",
    		"  Detection in hiding spots with doors",
    		"    ●If the player is detected in a closet, locker, or small tent, the ghost will set a waypoint just outside that location, then force open the door(s) of that hiding spot when it arrives, overriding the player holding the door if applicable. This usually results in death unless the player is standing in such a way that delays LoS from being achieved, and they can close the closet door again fast enough",
    		"  Hiding behind opened room doors",
    		"    ●If there is an opened room door within 3 metres of the ghost, it will check if there are players nearby. If this is true, it will roam to the player's location and forcefully close the door, similar to how ghosts open closet/locker doors if a player is detected inside",
    		"  Smudging",
    		"    ●If the ghost is within range of a burning Incense, regardless of who is holding the Incense, and is successfully \"pinged\", the ghost will forget the last known player location and be unable to detect or kill players for 5 seconds, causing it to enter the \"wandering\" phase. When the effect ends, it will be able to detect and kill players again, resuming its normal hunting behaviour. The Incense technically does not \"repel\" the ghost away from the player, only that it will randomly set a new waypoint which may or may not be in the same direction as the player",
    		"  Monkey Paw",
    		"    ●Using the Monkey Paw's \"I wish to be safe\" will enable the ghost to detect the wisher's voice and electronics from infinite range (including from different floors) for the rest of the contract",
    		"  Ghost-specific detection behaviours",
    		"    ●Some ghosts have different behaviours in terms of detecting players during hunts:",
    		"      ●If the Banshee's target is currently within the investigation area, it cannot detect nor kill non-targets",
    		"      ●The Deogen always has LoS with all players, meaning it always knows everyone's location",
    		"      ●Blinding the Moroi using Incense is effective for 50% longer",
    		"      ●The Yokai can only detect voices and electronics within 2.5 metres of it, instead of the respective 9 and 7.5 metres",
    		"Ghost speeds",
    		"  ●Most ghosts move at a base speed of 1.7 m/s. If a ghost maintains active line-of-sight (LoS) with a player it is chasing, its speed will gradually increase at a rate of 0.05 times its base speed per second, taking up to 13 seconds to reach the cap of 1.65 times its base speed. If it loses detection of a player, it will maintain the speed until it gives up its \"immediate area search\", thereafter slowly decreasing its speed at 0.01 times its base speed per second. This takes 65 seconds to return to base speed if from maximum speed. Ghosts do not carry over their speed across hunts",
    		"  ●Additionally, if the weather is Blood Moon, the ghost's speed is increased by 15%",
    		"  ●For comparison, the player walks at 1.6 m/s and can sprint at 3 m/s for 3 seconds with a 5-second cooldown, resulting in an average speed of 2.125 m/s if continuously sprinting off-cooldown",
			"",
    		"●Ghosts are able to perform interactions during hunts. There are similarities and differences from non-hunt interactions:",
    		"  ●All ghosts have a 50% chance (100% chance for Poltergeist) of throwing one object near it (within 1.5 meters on small maps, and within 3 meters on medium and large maps) every 0.5 seconds during hunts",
    		"  ●Ghosts can interact with all types of doors, except exit doors and other types of furniture doors. If a ghost with the Ultraviolet evidence interacts with a door, it will leave the evidence accordingly",
    		"    ●If the player is holding a normal or closet door, the ghost cannot override it unless it detects the player as defined above. It can still leave an EMF signal and Ultraviolet (if applicable) if it cannot override the door",
    		"    ●Ghosts cannot randomly interact with small tent (hiding) doors but will do so if a player is detected in the small tent",
    		"  ●The ghost can blow out firelights within 5 meters during a hunt, though this is technically not a true interaction",
    		"●Most other objects cannot be interacted with by the ghost during a hunt",
			"",
    		"●During hunts, the ghost will always produce footsteps and one specific vocalization that is used for all hunts in that contract. The interval between footsteps depends on the moving speed of the ghost",
    		"●Without adjusting for volume fall-off, the maximum distance a player can hear ghost footsteps and vocalizations during a hunt is 20 metres. If the player(s) and the ghost are located on different floors during the hunt, there will be no electronic interference and the ghost's footsteps and vocalizations will be greatly muffled, though the range is still the same. Sound occlusion and electronic interference does not account for physics; a ghost going up a staircase may sound muffled and not cause electronic interference on the upper floor until it reaches the top",
    		"●Within 10 metres of the ghost, all active electronic equipment and map lights will malfunction and/or flicker rapidly. Players can hear their own heartbeat if the ghost is within 10 metres, and there are no walls, floors, or doors between the ghost and the player. Most, if not all pieces of furniture do not prevent heartbeats even when the ghost technically does not have line-of-sight with the player",
    		"●During a hunt, the ghost will flicker or flash in and out of existence. The first flicker-in occurs immediately when the grace period ends",
    		"●Timed correctly, one can obtain rewardable ghost photos during a hunt while the ghost flashes visible",
			"",
    		"●For the ghost to kill a player, their \"collision boxes\" must intersect, and line-of-sight must be achieved. When the ghost kills a player, the player will drop all of their equipment and grotesque hands will appear on their screen before they are teleported into an otherworldly room alone with the ghost. The dead player will then return to their location with their entire screen covered in bright fog. From another player's perspective, the victim drops their equipment and reaches for their neck as they're being strangled by an invisible force, before dropping dead. One dead player chosen at random can be revived if a tarot card labeled The High Priestess is drawn or if the Monkey Paw's \"I wish for life\" wish is used with a 50% chance of killing the wishing player. If all players die, the contract will end",
			"",
    		"●A hunt ends when the ghost successfully kills a player (when Kills extend hunts is off), the ghost's hunting time is up, or there are no alive players within the investigation area for any reason, including if every player is killed, if every player glitches out at the start of a hunt/during a hunt, or if the exit doors are unlocked with the Monkey Paw's \"I wish to leave\" wish and every player exits during a hunt",
    		"●When the hunt ends, the ghost will disappear and be teleported back to its ghost room, the exit door can be unlocked again, all on-site lights will turn off and can once again be toggled"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Evidences",
		"Text":[
			"Ghost Evidence:",
    		"  There are currently seven unique pieces of evidence in the game that can be used to identify a ghost:",
			"      ●EMF Level 5",
			"      ●Freezing Temperatures",
			"      ●Ultraviolet",
			"      ●Ghost Writing",
			"      ●Ghost Orb",
			"      ●D.O.T.S Projector",
			"      ●Spirit Box",
			"",
    		"  By default, each ghost can give 3 types of evidence",
    		"  On Nightmare difficulty, each ghost can only provide 2 types of evidence, meaning at the start of the contract, the game will randomly choose 2 types, and the remaining type will be hidden",
    		"  Similarlly, Insanity difficulty causes each ghost to only give 1 type of evidence, with the other 2 being hidden",
			"",
    		"  Some pieces of evidence are guaranteed for specific ghosts, meaning that on Nightmare or Insanity difficulty, they will not be hidden and will always be one of the ghost's given evidences",
			"",
    		"  ●EMF Level 5",
    		"    When a ghost with EMF Level 5 as one of its evidences interacts with the environment, each EMF reading will have a 25% chance to be an EMF 5 emission instead of EMF 2 or EMF 3, which can be detected and confirmed with an EMF Reader. This applies to any action that will normally create EMF 2 or EMF 3, such as interactions, abilities and so on. It does not apply to EMF 4",
			"    Ghosts always leave an EMF trace at he fuse box when they turned it on or off. What you can do is leave an EMF reader there, and it if goes off but the breaker doesn't turn on/off at that time - you've got a Jinn",
			"",
    		"  ●Freezing Temperatures",
    		"    The presence of a ghost in a room will cause the room's temperature to decrease, regardless of evidence. Ghosts without Freezing Temperatures evidence will be able to drop the room's temperature to 1°C (33.8°F), whereas ghosts with Freezing Temperatures as evidence will be able to drop the temperature to −10°C (14°F)",
    		"    Freezing Temperatures can only be confirmed if the thermometer reads a temperature strictly below 1°C (33.8°F)",
			"",
    		"  ●Ultraviolet",
    		"    Ultraviolet evidence consists of fingerprints and footprints which can be revealed by using a UV Light",
    		"    Fingerprints:",
    		"      ●By default, each interaction on a valid surface will always produce a fingerprint",
    		"      ●A ghost with Ultraviolet evidence will leave behind fingerprints when it interacts with the following surfaces or items:",
    		"        ●Most types of doors",
			"          ●Light switches and lamps",
    		"        ●Windows",
			"          ●Keyboards",
			"          ●TV remotes",
			"          ●Cooler boxes",
			"          ●Mirrors (specific maps only)",
    		"      ●The Prison map has additional places where fingerprints may be left behind:",
			"          ●On the horizontal surface of a bar of cell doors",
			"          ●On the steel keyhole surface of cell doors",
    		"      ●Maple Lodge Campsite and Camp Woodwind also have additional places where fingerprints may appear:",
    		"        ●Bases of lanterns",
			"          ●Interior edges around large tent door flaps/tops of small tent door flaps",
			"          ●Picnic benchtops",
			"          ●String light poles",
    		"      ●Lights flickering or interactions caused by ghost events will not result in a fingerprint being left behind in these instances",
    		"      ●Fingerprints will disappear completely after 2 minutes, or 1 minute on Insanity difficulty. This can be changed using a custom difficulty setting",
			"",
    		"    Footprints:",
    		"      ●After a ghost steps in a salt pile, if it moves any time within 10 seconds after it steps in the pile, it will emit a footstep sound with each step, and if the ghost has Ultraviolet evidence, it will leave a footprint with each footstep sound. Each footprint will disappear after 10 to 15 seconds",
    		"      ●Because of the random nature of the game, a ghost may step in a salt pile and choose to stop moving immediately, creating no footprints in that instance",
    		"      ●Footprints left by the \"lamprey-faced\" child ghost model are slightly smaller than those left by other ghost models",
			"",
    		"  ●Ghost Writing",
    		"    If Ghost Writing is a piece of evidence, if the ghost chooses to interact with an opened Ghost Writing Book, the book will rise and frantic scribbling will be visible. Ghost Writing cannot be given if the Ghost Writing Book is closed and/or the ghost is outside of its range. If the ghost writes in the book, an EMF Level 2 reading will be created (25% chance of being an EMF Level 5 reading instead if the ghost has EMF Level 5 as evidence)",
    		"    A ghost can throw the Ghost Writing Book only if it does not have Ghost Writing among its types of evidence or when that piece of evidence is hidden. After being thrown, the book will close",
			"",
    		"  ●Ghost Orb",
    		"    When a map is loaded in, Ghost Orbs will spawn in the favourite room and float within the room. They look like very small orbs that glide across the screen, generally one at a time. They can be seen through the screen on a Video Camera with night vision, or through any available video feed with night vision, but not through night vision goggles (Tier III Head Gear)",
    		"    Depending on the map and the location of the favourite room, Ghost Orbs can sometimes be seen via the map's CCTVs if the CCTV happens to be facing into the favourite room, though this is usually rare. Ghost Orbs will periodically shift position within the favourite room, forcing players to be more proactive in locating them",
    		"    When the ghost room changes on difficulties where 'Changing favourite room' is not set to 'None' (such as on Professional, Nightmare, or Insanity), the Ghost Orbs will also move to the new favourite room",
			"",
    		"  ●D.O.T.S Projector",
    		"    Ghosts with D.O.T.S evidence will occasionally enter a \"D.O.T.S state\". During this, a faint silhouette of the ghost will be visible only when it passes through the laser grid. The ghost will also walk towards the nearest player if there is one in the same room, or towards a random waypoint if no players are nearby. While these silhouettes are visible to the naked eye, a video camera with night vision may allow for better visibility. This also means that D.O.T.S can be tracked simultaneously alongside Ghost Orbs",
    		"    Dead players cannot see the D.O.T.S state by any means",
			"",
    		"  ●Spirit Box",
    		"    Spirit Box evidence can be obtained through its equipment counterpart by asking the ghost various questions while it is enabled. There are some conditions to this, however:",
			"        ●The player must be in the same room as the ghost",
			"        ●The player must be within range of the ghost",
			"        ●All ambient lighting in said room must be off. Adjacent rooms do not need their lights disabled, and equipment doesn't need to be turned off",
			"        ●Ghosts who respond only to \"people who are alone\" will only respond if there is only one player in the room. Otherwise, the number of players in the room does not matter",
    		"    All possible questions can be fount in Spirit Box Phrases tab",
			"",
    		"Photo Evidence:",
    		"  Items that count towards photo evidence",
			"     ●Bones (also can be picked up and will not use up an item slot)",
			"     ●Dead Bodies or when the ghost is killing a teammate",
			"     ●Fingerprints",
			"     ●Footprints",
			"     ●Ghost as a physical manifestation or its D.O.T.S silhouette",
			"     ●Ghost Writing Book containing writing",
			"     ●Items that have recently been moved by the ghost (i.e. bottles, ghost book, doors, etc.)",
			"     ●Cursed possessions",
			"     ●Sink containing dirty water",
			"     ●Burned crucifixes",
			"     ●Disturbed Salt pile",
			"     ●Firelight recently blown out by the ghost"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Equipment",
		"Text":[
			"Equipment may be bought or sold in the Shop when in the lobby",
			"",
    		"When a player dies, they lose all equipment they added to the mission, excluding the default starter equipment that is always provided. Players who stay alive do not have to collect their equipment at the end of a contract to keep them; they will be returned automatically. Items with limited use per contract (e.g. incense and sanity medication) do not need to be bought again if the player remains alive, but if player uses it, it needs to be rebought",
			"",
    		"Players can buy and store a maximum of 999 of each item",
			"",
    		"There are 4 types of equipment:",
    		"  ●Starter equipment",
    		"  ●Optional equipment",
    		"  ●Truck equipment",
    		"  ●Cursed items/bonus equipment",
			"",
    		"●Starter equipment:",
    		"  Starter Equipment is available from the very beginning, and one of each of the following will always be freely included on an investigation, though additional pieces may be purchased and added",
			"",
			"  ●D.O.T.S. Projector Max:2",
    		"    Used to obtain D.O.T.S Projector from a ghost",
    		"    The D.O.T.S Projector can be placed on a wall or floor similar to a motion sensor. It emits a matrix of bright green laser points in a small area from the projector",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 0 lvl",
    		"      ●A small laser pen that projects small beams of light into the environment and can be used while moving",
    		"      ●Use it near ghost activity and scan for a physical form that may appear!",
    		"      ●Tier I D.O.T.S Projector additionally can be held and toggled to create a cone of D.O.T.S light where it is pointed. The Tier I D.O.T.S Projector will not work if Flashlights are turned off in custom difficulty settings",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 5",
    		"         ●Spotlight: Narrow",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
    		"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 29 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●This infrared motion sensor was adapted heavily to project light. It’s small and compact and can stick to most surfaces",
    		"      ●This small projector emits a medium sized sphere of light. Place it on the floor for the best coverage of small to medium-sized rooms",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 2.5",
    		"         ●Area Light",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 60 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●A motorized projector with three lenses for a wide coverage of light",
    		"      ●For the best coverage, place this projector on a wall or upright surface, stand nearby, and watch as it scans the environment",
    		"      ●To increase coverage even more, place two projectors opposite each other to fill entire rooms with infrared light!",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Range (m): 7",
			"         ●Spotlight: Wide",
			"         ●Placeable",
			"         ●Scanning",
			"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●EMF Reader Max:2",
    		"    Used to obtain EMF Level 5 from a ghost",
    		"    The reader can be toggled on to begin reading any emissions. The device's effective range, as well as how the reading is displayed, is dependent on the tier of the EMF Reader",
    		"    Holding an active EMF reader within 7.5 metres of a ghost during a hunt on the same floor will attract the ghost",
    		"    During hunts or when the ghost manifests, EMF readers within 10 metres of the ghost will malfunction and display random values between level 1 and 4",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 0 lvl",
    		"      ●The Tier I EMF Reader is an old GheistField Meter. It is reminiscent of an old Geiger counter. When in range of an EMF reading, it will begin clicking and the dial will move to the rough area corresponding to the value of the EMF source, though the dial will sway up or down a bit due to its age",
    		"      ●When EMF Level 5 is detected, the dial will quickly shoot all the way to the right, and sway a lot less down, staying at and far past the level 5 mark (staying at and below does not count)",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Accuracy: Low",
    		"         ●Range (m): 1.7",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
    		"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 20 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●The Tier II EMF Reader is the K2 Meter. The K2 is a small black box adorned with five colored LED lights, each one indicating a different EMF reading. When detecting an EMF emission, the reader will light up various numbers of its LEDs, accompanied with a pitch associated with the measured reading's level. If multiple EMF emissions are in range, the one with the highest EMF level will be indicated by the reader, though some fine positioning may be able to change which reading its being given out",
    		"      ●When EMF Level 5 is detected, all five lights will be illuminated, and it will make a very high pitch tone",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Accuracy: Medium",
    		"         ●Range (m): 2",
    		"         ●Audio Indicator",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
    		"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 52 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 4,500",
    		"      ●The Tier III EMF Reader is the EMF ParaMeter. It is similar in design to a PDA, with a blocky black plastic shell and a large center screen. It is able to read and track up to three interactions at once, giving the reading's EMF level by filling in dashes, and additionally reads out how far away that the reading occurred from the device (in meters) as well as the direction at which the interaction happened, allowing for the holder to quickly track down where the EMF emission is sourced from",
    		"      ●When detecting something that is not EMF Level 5, it will create a beeping sound. When detecting EMF Level 5, all dashes will fill and a unique beeping noise that is higher pitched will play",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Accuracy: High",
    		"         ●Range (m): 3.5",
    		"         ●Audio Indicator",
    		"         ●Display Screen",
    		"         ●Distance Indicator",
    		"         ●Directional Indicator",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●Ghost Writing Book Max:2",
    		"    Used to obtain Ghost Writing from a ghost",
    		"    A translucent preview of the Ghost Writing Book opened will appear while the player is aiming at a surface and holding down the Secondary Use key. The book will be placed when the key is released",
    		"    If Ghost Writing is an evidence type for the ghost, the ghost has a chance of interacting with the book by writing in it. When this happens, the book will slightly levitate and the pen will start to frantically scribble on the pages visually and audibly, followed by the pen being thrown on the ground. An EMF Level 2 reading is also created, with a 25% chance of it being EMF Level 5 instead if this is one of the ghost's types of evidence. The ghost will not write in the book if it is closed and/or out of range",
    		"    A ghost can throw the Ghost Writing Book only if it does not have Ghost Writing among its types of evidence or when that piece of evidence is hidden. After being thrown, the book will close",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 0 lvl",
    		"      ●This paper notepad can be placed nearby a ghost to encourage some paranormal writing. Make sure to place it nearby any activity you see",
    		"      ●Some ghosts may not notice the small notepad and pencil, so it may take some time before anything happens",
			"        Properties",
			"         ●Interaction Rate: Low",
    		"         ●Range (m): 3",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 23 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●With nicer pages and a pen, ghosts seem to notice this book a bit more often than the previous version, making wait times a bit shorter for evidence to occur",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Interaction Rate: Medium",
    		"         ●Range (m): 4",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 63 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●With its large profile, a mixture of high-quality materials and an ornate pen, this book has the highest chance to be written in by ghosts. It has a larger range than the previous two tiers so placing this book within a ghost’s interaction range is much easier",
			"        Properties",
			"         ●Interaction Rate: High",
    		"         ●Range (m): 5",
			"",
			"  ●Spirit Box Max:2",
    		"    Used to obtain Spirit Box from a ghost",
    		"    The Spirit Box can be turned on via toggle. The Spirit Box emits a constant static noise while active",
    		"    The microphone LED/icon will indicate whether or not the Spirit Box is listening (when Push To Talk or Toggle is used), or receiving microphone input (when Voice Activation is used)",
    		"    There are three ways to probe for a response via the Spirit Box:",
    		"      ●If using voice chat, the Spirit Box will recognise any valid question asked by the player",
    		"      ●If using the text-based UI, the UI will appear upon turning on the Spirit Box. Players can then click to select one of 3 questions. The player can exit the UI by turning off the Spirit Box",
    		"      ●If the player selects Vosk, Windows, or None as the voice recognition method, having voice chat active (by holding the push-to-talk button or selecting Voice Activation) will enable the Spirit Box to automatically \"ping\" a question every 10 seconds",
    		"    If nothing happens upon asking a question, it is possible the game did not recognise any valid phrase, or the player's voice recognition is not working properly. Note that the microphone LED/icon shows whether the game is picking up the player's microphone only if the player's voice chat option is set to Voice Activation. When using the Windows voice recognition system, this does not necessarily mean that the system is working properly",
    		"    When a question is successfully registered, the Spirit Box will return one of two results:",
    		"      ●If all the relevant conditions are met and the chance is successful, the ghost LED will turn white on a Tier I Spirit Box, the ghost icon will display on a Tier II Spirit Box, the response LEDs will turn white on a Tier III Spirit Box, and a distorted voice line will be heard through the Spirit Box. This is considered as evidence of Spirit Box",
    		"      ●If the ghost LED turns red on a Tier I Spirit Box, the 'X' icon displays on a Tier II Spirit Box, or the response LEDs turn red on a Tier III Spirit Box, one or more of the conditions listed below have not been met",
    		"    In order to get a successful Spirit Box response from the ghost, all of the following is required:",
    		"      ●The ghost has Spirit Box as one of its types of evidence",
    		"      ●The player must be in the same room as the ghost",
    		"      ●The player must be within a certain range of the ghost",
    		"      ●All lights in said room must be off. Light emitted from equipment, including electronic and non-electronic equipment, does not affect this. Lights in other rooms, including rooms or hallways that are directly adjacent, may be left on, and any doors between the rooms can stay open",
    		"      ●Ghosts which respond only to \"people who are alone\" will respond only if there is a single person in the room at the moment the question is asked. If the ghost is noted to respond to everyone, the number of people in the room does not affect the ghost's ability to respond",
    		"      ●If all other conditions are met, there is a chance of the ghost responding per question asked. The chance depends on the tier of the Spirit Box",
    		"    If the player is particularly unlucky, a combination of these factors may cause the Spirit Box to repeatedly turn the LEDs red, or show an 'X', despite the ghost having Spirit Box as one of its evidences",
    		"    Other than the need for the Spirit Box to be near the player, there are no further checks on where the Spirit Box itself is",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 0 lvl",
    		"      ●When turning this Spirit Box on, it will begin to scan through different radio frequencies. Make sure to stand near to any paranormal activity, turn off any lights in that room, and ask some questions in the hope of a response",
    		"      ●If the question has been heard, a red light will flash on the Spirit Box, if it flashes white, you've got a response",
    		"      ●Try asking \"Where are you?\" or \"Are you friendly?\". Be warned, you may not like the answer you receive",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Audio Quality: Low",
    		"         ●Response Rate: Low",
    		"         ●Range (m): 3",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 27 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●This more modern Spirit Box has a higher-quality speaker and is much more efficient at scanning through frequencies, making paranormal responses easier to deciper",
    		"      ●If a question has been heard, a black X will flash on the screen, if you get a response, the small ghost icon will flash instead",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Audio Quality: Medium",
    		"         ●Response Rate: Medium",
    		"         ●Range (m): 4",
    		"         ●Display Screen",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 54 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●When turned on, this Spirit Box scans both frequencies of radio at the same time, increasing the chance of picking up a paranormal response when asking questions. It also has a built-in noise filter, to reduce the amount of static you hear between interactions",
    		"      ●If a question is heard and no response is given, the RESPONSE LEDs will flash red. If a reply is given, the LEDs will flash white in time with the sound",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Audio Quality: High",
    		"         ●Response Rate: High",
    		"         ●Range (m): 5",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●Thermometer Max:2",
    		"    Used to obtain Freezing Temperatures from a ghost",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 0 lvl",
    		"      ●While moving through locations, ghosts will drop the temperature of the room they are currently in. Carry one of these thermometers into a room you think the ghost may be in and check the reading",
    		"      ●The Tier I Thermometer passively reads out the temperature of the last room in which the player held it, with the red liquid within slowly rising or falling depending on if the room is colder or warmer than where it was before. While very slow to update, with a rate of 0.33°C per second, it benefits over its upgraded versions by being both completely passive, and is not an electronic item that could attract the ghost while held during a hunt",
    		"      ●The thermometer reads out both Celsius (°C) and Fahrenheit (°F), with Celsius values on the left side and Fahrenheit on the right. The reading will fluctuate from the actual value by a maximum of +3 degrees, in Celsius",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Accuracy: Low",
    		"         ●Sample Speed: Low",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 36 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●This Digital Thermometer is much faster at reading temperatures",
    		"      ●The thermometer can be toggled to turn on the display. Holding down the use button will make the thermometer read the player's current room's temperature in degrees Celsius (°C) every 2.5 seconds. This can be changed to Fahrenheit (°F) in the settings. The reading will fluctuate from the actual value by a maximum of +3 degrees, in Celsius",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Accuracy: Medium",
    		"         ●Sample Speed: Medium",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 64 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●An Air Thermometer that can scan temperatures much faster than its predecessor",
    		"      ●Similar to the Tier II thermometer, it can be toggled to turn on the display, and can be used to give a reading by holding down the use button. Compared to the Tier II thermometer, it is much faster to give a read-out, only taking 1.5 second between each reading",
    		"      ●The reading will fluctuate from the actual value by a maximum of +2 degrees, in Celsius",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Accuracy: High",
    		"         ●Sample Speed: High",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●UV Light Max:2",
    		"    Used to obtain Ultraviolet from a ghost",
    		"    The UV light can be enabled using the toggle key while holding it. The UV light can be activated at the same time as a standard flashlight, but any visible fingerprints or footprints may contrast poorly and be hard to see under their light. The UV light projects purple light and this light is weak relative to flashlights. The Tier I and III UV Lights will not work if Flashlights are turned off in custom difficulty settings",
    		"    Ghosts that give ultraviolet evidence can leave prints on certain surfaces doors, light switches, and windows. They may also leave prints on floors after stepping through salt. These prints become visible and green when a UV light is shone towards them",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 0 lvl",
    		"      ●This UV flashlight has a long-distance narrow beam of light, perfect for quickly searching for fingerprints and footprints without having to move too far",
    		"      ●It counts as an electronic equipment. So it will flicker rapidly near a manifesting ghost and will attract the ghost during a hunt when it is nearby",
    		"      ●It also charges prints much faster than the Glowstick",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●UV Charge Time: 5",
    		"         ●Spotlight: Narrow",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 21 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●Use this Glowstick to grant an area light that slowly fades over time. Once the light has dulled, give it another shake to replenish some of the light",
    		"      ●When activated, it glows brightly for 1 minute, then fades to half intensity over the next 10 seconds. After dimming, the glowstick can be shaken with primary use to revitalize the light it produces",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Duration (s): 60",
    		"         ●UV Charge Time: 10",
    		"         ●Area Light",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 56 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 2,000",
    		"      ●With a much wider output and brighter source, this flashlight will allow even faster charging and finding of UV fingerprints or footprints",
    		"      ●It counts as an electronic equipment",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●UV Charge Time: 1.5",
    		"         ●Spotlight: Wide",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●Video Camera Max:4",
    		"    Used to obtain Ghost Orbs from a ghost",
    		"    When a video camera is picked up, the flip screen will open automatically. If the player is inside the truck, they must leave the truck for the flip screen to open. The video camera can be used handheld with its built-in display or placed on a flat surface or a tripod",
    		"    Holding the placement key will show a translucent preview of the video camera and its facing direction, which can be adjusted while holding the placement key by moving the mouse left and right. Be aware that even though certain spots are shown as valid, the camera may tip over or fall due to the geometry or other objects placed on the surface. The video camera will automatically start streaming its video feed to the computer when open or placed",
    		"    When the ghost manifests during a ghost event or a hunt, it will cause interference on all nearby video cameras and distort the image on both the built-in display and the video feed. Cameras of higher Tier with a better image quality will be significantly less impacted by ghost interference, aiding players in observing or tracking the ghost during a ghost event or a hunt",
    		"    Ghosts may occasionally knock over placed down video cameras within a certain range, forcing players to actively tend to them. Placing a camera on a tripod will reduce the probability of the ghost knocking it over. The stability provided by the tripod will depend on its Tier",
    		"    Night vision can be toggled while holding the active video camera or via the computer keyboard. When night vision is turned on, any Ghost Orbs present can be seen through the video camera",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 0 lvl",
    		"      ●This vintage camcorder may be old, but it’s perfect for hunting down Ghost Orbs",
    		"      ●Grab one and enter the location and start searching for a small spot of light dancing around in the room. Make sure to turn on your night vision first!",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Image Quality: Low",
    		"         ●Paranormal Resistance: Low",
    		"         ●Night Vision",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 33 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●A video camera with a higher quality screen, better night vision, and more resistance against paranormal interference. It should make finding those sneaky Ghost Orbs just that little bit easier",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Image Quality: Medium",
    		"         ●Paranormal Resistance: Medium",
    		"         ●Night Vision",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 61 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●A large cinema-grade video camera, it’s shoulder-mounted and heavy, but worth it for the additional visibility",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Image Quality: High",
    		"         ●Paranormal Resistance: High",
    		"         ●Night Vision",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●Flashlight Max:4",
    		"    Toggling on an equipped flashlight will provide a small conical range of light to improve visibility of the environment. The flashlight can also be put on the shoulder by cycling to another item, allowing its use offhand. When on the shoulder, the flashlight can be turned on or off by pressing the Special key",
    		"    Non-VR players can carry only one flashlight at a time, while VR players can have any number of flashlights held or placed onto the toolbelt. Illuminated flashlights will continue providing light from the hips until a player manually turns it off. While on the toolbelt, emitted light will track the player's head movement",
    		"    During a hunt, a flashlight will rapidly flicker if a ghost is within 10 metres and on the same floor. Like other electronic equipment, carrying a lit flashlight within 7.5 metres of the ghost during a hunt on the same floor will attract it",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 0 lvl",
    		"      ●A retro metallic flashlight, which provides a small amount of light, just enough to get around",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Intensity: Low",
    		"         ●Spotlight: Narrow",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 19 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●This flashlight emits a much brighter beam of light",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Intensity: Medium",
    		"         ●Spotlight: Narrow",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 35 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●Projecting a much wider cone of light, this flashlight is perfect for large rooms and open spaces",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Intensity: High",
    		"         ●Spotlight: Wide",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
    		"●Optional equipment:",
    		"  This equipment must be purchased in the game's shop and will not be given by default",
			"",
			"  ●Crucifix Max:2",
    		"    A crucifix can be held in the player's hand, thrown, or placed; the crucifix works in all three situations. Holding F will show the default effective range for the crucifix; this is a translucent sphere with a radius depending on its tier level",
    		"    When the ghost attempts to initiate a hunt within the crucifix's range, the hunt will fail to begin, and a charge will be used. The ghost is then teleported back to its favourite room. Each time a crucifix successfully prevents a hunt, an EMF Level 2 reading is created, with a 25% chance for this to be EMF Level 5 if it is one of the ghost's evidences",
    		"    Each time it blocks a hunt attempt, a burning effect will appear, and the crucifix will glow visually before fading slightly darker. On first use, one arm of the crucifix will disappear. On second use, more parts of the crucifix will disappear",
    		"    If a player-held crucifix successfully prevents a hunt attempt, it will automatically be thrown on the ground",
    		"    After the crucifix is completely burnt, the crucifix will be useless and have no further effect on the ghost. In addition, the crucifix will not work if:",
    		"      ●The ghost is not within the specified range (even if the crucifix is located in the favourite room)",
    		"      ●A cursed possession is used to initiate a cursed hunt (Except for in the case of an unused tier III crucifix, which can be used to stop a cursed hunt at the cost of both its charges)",
    		"      ●A hunt has already started/is in progress",
    		"    Each time a crucifix is used, the ghost must wait a minimum of 25 seconds before attempting to initiate another hunt",
    		"    The crucifix range is not limited by any obstacle such as walls and doors. This includes exterior walls, which means that it is possible for crucifixes to be used outside provided the ghost is within its range inside the investigation area. 42 Edgefield Road is a good example of this, where a ghost near the front of the house, even upstairs, could possibly use up a crucifix still hanging on the truck wall",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 8 lvl",
    		"      ●This crucifix can be held or placed to stop the ghost from initiating a single attack",
    		"      ●Make sure to keep it placed near any activity you may find",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Range (m): 3",
			"         ●Uses: 1",
			"         ●Placeable",
			"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 37 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 4,000",
    		"      ●A metal crucifix that can be used to block two attacks, with a larger range",
    		"      ●Remember to keep it in close proximity to any activity you come across",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 4",
    		"         ●Uses: 2",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 90 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 20,000",
    		"      ●This crucifix has an even larger range than its previous version",
    		"      ●Additionally, an unused crucifix can prevent a cursed hunt, consuming both uses",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 5",
    		"         ●Uses: 2",
    		"         ●Prevents one cursed hunt",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"  ●Firelight Max:4",
    		"    Firelights can be lit, grabbed, carried, and can slow sanity drain. Firelights also appear as candles on certain maps, but those candles can't be grabbed or carried, and have no effect on sanity drain",
    		"    Players can light a firelight held in their hand by pressing Primary Use if they have an igniter in their inventory. A firelight placed down can be lit while holding an igniter and pressing Secondary Use. One can also hold a lit firelight, aim at an unlit firelight, and use the Secondary Use key",
    		"    An unorthodox way is to have the wick of one lit and one unlit firelight to collide (this may need velocity)",
    		"    Firelights can be placed down on surfaces. Holding the placement key will show a translucent highlight of the firelight. This will place the firelight upright relative to the surface. Firelights can topple/fall over when placed on a slope or vertically",
    		"    Ghosts will occasionally blow out a firelight that is within 5 metres of it. The fire will be extinguished with a blowing \"sigh\" effect. Ghosts can blow out firelights at any time, even during hunts. A firelight will also extinguish by itself at the end of its duration which depends on its tier level. Tier I and Tier II firelights will produce smoke when blown by the ghost or self-extinguishing",
    		"    Throwing a lit firelight/one falling with sufficient velocity (Tiers I and II only), placing it in the inventory, leaving it out in heavy rain (Tiers I and II only), or pressing Primary Use while held in hand will cause it to extinguish",
    		"    When a player is within 2 metres of a lit firelight, it will slow passive sanity drain that results from being in the dark, at a rate depending on the firelight's tier level. Lit firelights do not affect sanity drain from other sources such as ghost events or other players dying",
    		"    The Tier II firelight counts as a single flame for all purposes",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 12 lvl",
    		"      ●This small candle will provide light and some sanity loss prevention, but only for a while, the wax burns down quite fast!",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Range (m): 2",
			"         ●Duration (min): 5",
			"         ●Sanity Drain Reduction (%): 33",
			"         ●Placeable",
			"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 47 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●With three candles instead of one, the light provided is much brighter, longer range and lasts longer",
    		"      ●Additionally, this Firelight doesn’t need to be held to gain its effects, so you can place it and stand nearby to still receive the sanity benefits!",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 2",
    		"         ●Duration (min): 10",
    		"         ●Sanity Drain Reduction (%): 50",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 79 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 10,000",
    		"      ●This lantern will last for the entirety of a contract, so there's no worry of it going out when you need it most. Just like its predecessor you can stand nearby to gain its effects",
    		"      ●Lastly, it’s waterproof so it even works in the rain!",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 2",
    		"         ●Sanity Drain Reduction (%): 66",
    		"         ●Waterproof",
    		"         ●Placeable",
			"",
			"  ●Head Gear Max:4",
    		"    Picking up a head gear will put it on the player's head. The head gear can be toggled on or off by holding the Special key for a couple of seconds. It can be placed back at any time. Worn Head Gear does not take up an inventory slot. The camera's display moves relative to the direction that the player's model is facing",
    		"    Activated Head Gear will attract the ghost during hunts, similar to other electronic equipment",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 13 lvl",
    		"      ●Strapping this small camera to your head allows your teammates to watch a live video feed of your view from the safety of the truck, great for multitasking and catching things that you may miss!",
    		"      ●Tier I Head Gear is the Head Mounted Camera. When activated, it functionally serves as a portable Video Camera, and can be used to help teams track each other and to see Ghost Orbs. Although useless when playing alone, they can be handy in a team with an observer in the Truck",
    		"      ●Like with regular video cameras, Head Mounted Cameras can switch between visual and night-vision modes at the Computer, and can be used to detect Ghost Orbs when in night vision mode. They are also handy for monitoring players who have to be alone to get ghost responses, such as when using a Spirit Box, and are very useful for guiding players around larger maps, especially in the dark, since the player in the truck can see with night vision mode even if all the lights in the location are out, as well as having access to the Site Map",
    		"      ●When the player equips the Tier I Head Gear, the player can see a big box-like object above the field of view. If it is activated, a red indicator light will start to blink",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Image Quality: Medium",
			"         ●Paranormal Interference: Low",
			"         ●Head Slot",
			"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 49 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 10,000",
    		"      ●A small head-mounted flashlight that doesn’t take up an inventory slot. The only downside being the light isn’t overly bright or wide",
    		"      ●Tier II Head Gear is the Head Lamp. When activated, it provides a light source emanating from the player's head, with comparable power and illumination to the Tier I Flashlight",
    		"      ●The Tier II Head Gear is not visible in the player's field of view unless the player starts to sprint. Even while sprinting, the player can hardly see a part of it",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Intensity: Medium",
    		"         ●Head Slot",
    		"         ●Spotlight",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 82 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 10,000",
    		"      ●A pair of Night Vision goggles, allowing you to see in the dark without the need for a flashlight",
    		"      ●Be warned though, your vision may get distorted if within range of an active ghost, rendering the goggles useless",
    		"      ●Tier III Head Gear is the Night Vision Goggles. When activated, it brightens visibility substantially, painting the player's view light green and allowing them to see in the dark, at the expense of added film grain, lowered render scale, and a slight fish-eye effect, altogether reducing the player's ability to see as far as they could have, and clearly",
    		"      ●The display through Tier III Head Gear is a filter through normal vision, rather than a proper separate display as seen in a Video Camera in night-vision mode; an active UV Light will project a definite purple light, when through the video camera's night vision it would be white like from a (visible light spectrum) Flashlight, and Ghost Orbs cannot be seen through just the view provided by the goggles",
    		"      ●The Tier III Head Gear filters out red lights. This makes EMF Level 5 on a Tier II EMF Reader appear identical to EMF 4, or the Spirit Box's red lights to not be visible",
    		"      ●When the player equips the Tier III Head Gear, the player can see a big goggle-like object above the field of view",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Paranormal Interference: High",
    		"         ●Head Slot",
    		"         ●Night Vision",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●Igniter Max:4",
    		"    An igniter can be used either when held or when in the inventory. The igniter can be lit by pressing the Primary Use key while holding it. Incense, summoning circle candles and regular firelight can then be lit by aiming at the item and pressing the Secondary Use key. Alternatively, if the igniter is offhand in the inventory, incense or firelight being held on-hand can be lit directly with Primary Use. The igniter does not have to be lit prior in this case, as it will automatically turn off when placed offhand",
    		"    Igniters take up their own special slot in the inventory, allowing for three other items to be carried with them",
    		"    Igniters have a limited amount of usable time, depending on their tier",
    		"    Additionally, lighting a held incense or firelight while the igniter is offhand in the inventory will instantly deduct 1 match for the Tier I and 15 seconds of the total fuel for the Tiers II and III",
    		"    Active Tier I and Tier II igniters are affected by Heavy Rain, and will be extinguished automatically when taken outside and cannot be ignited in that weather, excepting places that are covered from the rain (e.g. under porch roofs, inside tents). However, they can still light held incense and Tier III firelights up if they are in the inventory, even while fully outside",
    		"    Ghosts can occasionally blow out igniter flames within 5 metres of them",
    		"    Tier I and II igniters are consumable, and will have to be repurchased after use",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 12 lvl",
    		"      ●These matches are perfect for lighting Firelights and Incense, but remember, with only ten uses you’ll run out fast",
    		"      ●They can also be used as a small light source, just make sure to not burn your fingers",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Duration (s): 10",
			"         ●Uses: 10",
			"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 41 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 500",
    		"      ●A gas lighter. It provides a little more light than matches and lasts a lot longer",
    		"      ●You can see the liquid inside it drain as you use it, make sure you have enough left when you’re in a pinch!",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Duration (min): 5",
    		"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 57 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 750",
    		"      ●This Lighter could last you for an entire contract, as long as you’re not wasting it!",
    		"      ●With a larger flame, the light it provides is brighter and has larger range, perfect for those dark getaways during an attack",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Duration (min): 10",
    		"         ●Waterproof",
			"",
			"  ●Incense Max:4",
    		"    To light incense, have an igniter in the inventory, hold the incense, then press the Primary Use key. Incense thrown on the ground can also be lit by aiming at it while holding an igniter or firelight, then pressing Secondary Use",
    		"    Once lit, the incense will emit smoke for a certain amount of time depending on the tier level",
    		"    While burning, the incense attempts multiple times per second to successfully apply its effect(s), but can only apply the effect(s) once. When the incense is used up, the smoke will stop being emitted and the model will finish burning to a stub. There is no explicit indication of whether the incense was used effectively or not. Used incense can still be handheld, but since there's nothing to use, it is normally discarded",
    		"    The incense has a range in which the ghost must be for its effects to be successfully applied. This range depends on the tier level",
    		"    When the ghost is within the incense's range while it is burning, the following will occur:",
    		"      ●Ghost activity will be increased marginally",
    		"      ●The ghost will be unable to initiate a hunt on its own for a certain duration:",
    		"        ●Demon: 60 seconds",
    		"        ●Spirit: 180 seconds",
    		"        ●All other ghosts: 90 seconds",
    		"      ●If the ghost is a Yurei, it will also return to its favorite room and cannot roam out for 90 seconds. This will not prevent ghost events from happening outside the room",
    		"    Lighting incense will not prevent cursed hunts nor stop an already ongoing hunt, but doing this during a hunt will prevent further attempts to initiate regular hunts for the specified duration starting from when the incense effect is applied",
    		"    If another incense is used while this effect from a previous incense is ongoing, this effect will not be re-applied and the timer will not be reset",
    		"    Due to a quirk in how incense works, ghosts which are standing on stairs will not be affected by the \"cleansing\" property of incense, though they will be affected by the \"blinding\" ability described below",
    		"    Incense can be used to \"blind\" the ghost during a hunt. For this effect to apply, the ghost must be within the incense's range. When the effect is successfully applied, the ghost will:",
    		"      ●Be unable to detect or kill players; one can walk through it without dying",
    		"      ●Walk in a random direction, similar to its \"wandering phase\"",
    		"      ●Additionally, the Tier II Incense will slow down the ghost, and the Tier III Incense will halt the ghost",
    		"    This effect lasts for 5 seconds. After this period, the ghost will return to its regular hunting behaviour, and be able to see and kill players again",
    		"    Multiple incenses can be used for the same purpose during the same hunt with no diminishing returns, to blind the ghost for up to 20 seconds consecutively",
    		"    If another incense is used while this effect from a previous incense is ongoing, this effect will be re-applied and the timer will be reset",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 14 lvl",
    		"      ●You can light Incense with any Igniter to stop a ghost from initiating a hunt for a long duration, additionally, you can use it during a hunt when near a ghost to disorient it for a few seconds",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Range (m): 3",
			"         ●Duration (s): 5",
			"         ●Blinds ghost during hunt (s): 5",
			"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 42 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,500",
    		"      ●Much more sage has been used to create this incense bundle, allowing for a longer burn time, keeping you safer for longer during attacks",
    		"      ●Additionally, it will slow the movement of the ghost for part its effect duration",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 4",
    		"         ●Duration (s): 6",
    		"         ●Blinds ghost during hunt (s): 5",
    		"         ●Slows ghost during hunts (s): 5",
    		"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 85 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 15,000",
    		"      ●With a much larger range and longer burn time, you can ward off ghosts much more safely when attacked. When the ghost is initially repelled it will be stunned, halting it’s movement for a short period",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 5",
    		"         ●Duration (s): 7",
    		"         ●Blinds ghost during hunt (s): 5",
    		"         ●Halts ghost during hunts (s): 5",
			"",
			"  ●Motion Sensor Max:4",
    		"    A motion sensor can be used by placing it. After being placed, it can be turned off by interacting with it",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 5 lvl",
    		"      ●Place this motion sensor on walls or the floor and it will flash any time something moves in front of it, even things you can’t see",
    		"      ●The Tier I Motion Sensor can either be placed on the wall or on the floor. When placed, the sensor will emit a red laser beam, indicating its effective detection distance. If it is placed on a wall, it will also display on the Site Map in the truck as a red bar",
    		"      ●When a player, the ghost, the airball, or an object passes through its laser beam, the motion sensor will emit a bright light for 2 seconds. The bar on the site map will also turn green for 6 seconds, and an audible beep will play from the monitor. Motion sensors that are not displayed will still play the beep",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Sensor Shape: Line",
			"         ●Light Indicator",
			"         ●Placeable",
			"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 45 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 2,500",
    		"      ●With two different modes, a longer range, and a sound indicator, this sensor is perfect for paranormal tracking",
    		"      ●You can toggle the laser shape by Interacting with the sensor after it has been placed",
    		"      ●The Tier II Motion Sensor is similar to the Tier I Motion Sensor and adds a conical mode which can be switched to by interacting with it. The conical mode allows the sensor to have a second laser beam that can help players track the ghost's movement more accurately, as its lights will be emitted from left to right, or from right to left, depending on the direction of the movement. Additionally, the Tier II Motion Sensor will directly emit an audible beep when it detects movement",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Sensor Shape: Line",
    		"         ●Sensor Shape: Narrow",
    		"         ●Light Indicator",
    		"         ●Audio Indicator",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 74 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 8,000",
    		"      ●Place this Motion Sensing camera on the floor near to any ghost activity you may find. When activated, it will turn and flash a bright light whenever a ghost enters or exits its detection range",
    		"      ●The Tier III Motion Sensor can only be placed on the floor and has a 1.5-metre spherical range that is displayed as a red circle on the site map in the truck. When the ghost enters this range, the sensor will quickly rotate to the location it detected the ghost, and will emit a small light and an audible beep. On the site map, the red circle will turn green for 6 seconds. When the ghost exits the range, the sensor will only rotate to the location it detected the ghost and emit a light, without beeping",
    		"      ●Only the ghost and the airball can trigger this sensor",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 1.5",
    		"         ●Sensor Shape: Full",
    		"         ●Scanning",
    		"         ●Light Indicator",
    		"         ●Audio Indicator",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●Parabolic Microphone Max:2",
    		"    The parabolic microphone allows the player to hear an idle ghost's paranormal sounds (voices, growls, etc.), as well as amplifying any other sounds. The parabolic microphone must be inside the building to detect sounds. When activated, the player will distinctively hear the sounds produced in front of the microphone with an angle of 110° horizontally, whether they are made by the ghost, another player, active equipment, or ambient noises, while all other sounds will be muffled",
    		"    The Tier I and Tier II parabolic microphones will only detect sounds on the same floor",
    		"    An idle ghost's paranormal sounds are normally inaudible. Those sounds become audible to a player using a parabolic microphone. Paranormal sounds can only be heard when aiming toward the ghost",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 7 lvl",
    		"      ●While using the Parabolic Microphone and attached headphones, you will be able to hear sounds further away than normal, depending on which way you are aiming the microphone",
    		"      ●It has a red light that will flicker when it detects a sound",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Range (m): 20",
			"         ●Sensor Shape: Wide",
			"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 31 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●We’ve improved this Parabolic Microphone with a couple upgrades; a better sensor and a small screen",
    		"      ●Turning it on will allow you to hear distance sounds, as well as get a visual reading on how loud that sound is",
    		"      ●The Tier II Parabolic Microphone has an additional screen which will display three sets of numbers:",
    		"        ●The largest number display (000.0) measures the total sum of sound detected from all sources",
    		"        ●The Min and Peak values display the quietest and loudest individual sound levels picked up, respectively",
    		"          ●For example, if a 16 dB sound, a 17 dB sound, and a 19 dB sound are picked up, Min will display 16 dB and Peak will display 19 dB, with the total sound level being 52 dB",
    		"      ●During a hunt, the display will rapidly flash random numbers",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 30",
    		"         ●Sensor Shape: Wide",
    		"         ●Display Screen",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 72 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 5,000",
    		"      ●This Parabolic Microphone has been improved with a visual sound indicator",
    		"      ●Each time a sound is detected within the microphone’s range, a visual indicator will be shown on the screen, including distance and volume, allowing you to easily track where the sound is coming from",
    		"      ●The Tier III Parabolic Microphone is similar to the Tier II Parabolic Microphone but it additionally includes a sonar function, allowing its screen to display the position, and the volume of each individual sound. It can also detect sounds one floor above or below the user",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Range (m): 30",
    		"         ●Sensor Shape: Wide",
    		"         ●Display Screen",
    		"         ●Distance Indicator",
    		"         ●Directional Indicator",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●Photo Camera Max:3",
    		"    The photo camera automatically turns on while held outside the truck. For the Tier II and III cameras, an additional display shows a preview of what the camera will capture at the moment it is used, and helps players frame the photo subject. Each photo camera can take an unlimited number of photos, but only the first 10 pictures taken will count towards earning photo rewards and completing objectives",
    		"    Upon taking a picture, the flash will go off, and a photo preview will show up on the camera for Tier II and III cameras. Any pictures taken of a reflective surface will show the lens flash in the picture, such as a television, or the axe that one of the possible ghost models wields. The cooldown between photo depends on the Tier of the photo camera. Note that while the camera is cooling down, the player cannot switch to and use another item; they can, however, use items placed down/dropped on the floor",
    		"    When a ghost manifests during a ghost event or a hunt, the photo camera's display will be distorted, as well as any pictures taken. Pictures taken in this state will still be labeled in the journal if a valid subject is detected",
    		"    Holding a Tier II or III photo camera within 7.5 metres of a ghost during a hunt on the same floor will attract the ghost. The Tier I photo camera will only attract the ghost when a picture is taken. However, due to a bug, if a Tier I photo camera is cycled into the inventory within 2.13 seconds after taking a photo, it will stay electronic until another photo is taken with it",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 3 lvl",
    		"      ●You can use this camera to take photos of any evidence you may find. It will only interfere with the ghost during the photo taking process, so be careful when you decide to snap a picture",
    		"      ●For more information on how to take photos check the ‘Photos’ section in you Journal",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Time Between Photos: 3",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 25 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●With this digital photo camera, you can snap pictures of evidence and paranormal entities much faster than the previous Tier",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Paranormal Resistance: Medium",
    		"         ●Time Between Photos: 2",
    		"         ●Display Screen",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 70 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 5,000",
    		"      ●This top-of-the-range camera provides the lowest delay time between photos, allowing quick evidence gathering",
    		"      ●Additionally, it’s been modified to be less susceptible to paranormal entities causing interference with the screen during manifestations",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Paranormal Resistance: High",
    		"         ●Time Between Photos: 1",
    		"         ●Display Screen",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●Salt Max:3",
    		"    A salt container can be used to place salt piles on the floor. Each salt container can be used 2-3 times, allowing a maximum of 6-9 salt piles to be placed per game with 3 salt containers. Salt piles can be stacked in the same spot",
    		"    When a ghost walks over a salt pile, it will leave an indent in the pile. This can happen any time, regardless of the ghost being invisible or not. Within the next few seconds after the salt has been stepped in, if the ghost has Ultraviolet evidence, the ghost will also leave temporary footprints visible under UV light where it chooses to roam",
    		"    Players cannot leave an imprint in salt piles or generate footprints",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 9 lvl",
    		"      ●While holding this container, you can place piles of Salt on the floor in the hope of tracking the ghost. We recommend placing them in doorways and near turns in hallways or rooms for the highest chance of getting a reaction",
    		"      ●The Tier I salt shaker has two uses, and places a small, circular pile of white salt on the ground. A sole-like imprint will be left in the pile once a ghost steps over it",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Uses: 2",
			"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 43 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 2,500",
    		"      ●This larger container holds more salt than its predecessor, allowing you to place long lines of salt to easily block wider passages",
    		"      ●The Tier II salt jar has three uses, and places a long pile of pink salt, making it easier for the ghost to step on. The middle of the salt pile will disappear when the ghost steps on it",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Uses: 3",
    		"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 68 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 5,000",
    		"      ●This salt is so powerful it can affect a ghost’s mobility in two ways",
    		"      ●Whilst a ghost is acting passively, these lines will act like a barrier, forcing the ghost to turn around when walking into one. Great for trapping those roaming ghosts in a room so you can find your evidence",
    		"      ●If it’s during an attack, the ghost will be slowed, giving you extra time to make your escape",
    		"      ●The Tier III salt jar has three uses, and places a long pile of black salt, identical in size to Tier II salt. If the ghost steps on a black salt pile during a hunt, its speed will be reduced by 50% for 2 seconds. If it steps on another black salt pile before the 2 seconds are over, the timer will be reset but the ghost will not be further slowed down",
    		"      ●If the ghost steps on the salt pile outside of a hunt, it will turn around and go back the way it came briefly. It has no effect during ghost events",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Uses: 3",
    		"         ●Slows ghost during hunts (s): 2",
    		"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"  ●Sanity Medication Max:4",
    		"    Consuming sanity medication will replenish a certain amount of the player's sanity up to the maximum of 100%, depending on difficulty:",
    		"      ●Amateur: 40%",
    		"      ●Intermediate: 35%",
    		"      ●Professional: 30%",
    		"      ●Nightmare: 25%",
    		"      ●Insanity: 20%",
    		"      ●Custom: 0% - 100%",
    		"    Consuming sanity medication will cause it to drop from the player's hand, and that item will no longer be consumable. Sanity medication cannot be consumed if the player's sanity is above 95%",
    		"    Depending on the tier of the medication, the speed of restoration will differ (the tier does not change the amount of sanity restored). It is recommended to stay outside of the house/in the truck until the full sanity amount has been restored in order to accurately track sanity for hunts",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 16 lvl",
    		"      ●Drink this bottle of vintage snake oil to restore a portion of your sanity. It will take a few seconds to complete the restoration",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Sanity Restoration Speed (s): 20",
			"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 39 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 2,000",
    		"      ●Taking these pills will restore your Sanity faster. You can take several pots to increase the amount of Sanity restored over its duration",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Sanity Restoration Speed (s): 10",
    		"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 77 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 5,000",
    		"      ●This Adrenaline Shot will restore your sanity much faster than the previous two versions, additionally, you will not lose any sprint stamina for the entire duration of its effects",
    		"      ●Once consumed, the Tier III sanity medication grants the player a sprint boost for 10 seconds, which means the player can run without exhaustion during that period. During the boost, the player can hear the heartbeat noise. After the boost, the user will normally consume the sprint stamina until they are exhausted. Consuming a Tier III sanity medication while a sprint boost is active doesn't extend the sprint boost time",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Sanity Restoration Speed (s): 10",
    		"         ●Sprint Boost (s): 10",
    		"         ●Consumable",
			"",
			"  ●Sound Sensor Max:4",
    		"    A sound sensor can be placed on the ground or other flat surface. The detection area is highlighted as an orange circle on the Site Map in the truck. The sound sensor picks up most noises, except for players talking through local and global chat",
    		"    Any noise picked up by a sensor will appear as a bar on the Sound Monitor, showing how loud the sound was and identifying which sensor picked up the sound. The screen will display the total volume of all sounds detected. The value displayed will update every second",
    		"    By default, the sound sensor picks up sound in a 5-meter radius on the same floor, ignoring walls. This radius can be increased by clicking on the enlargement icon on the Sound Monitor in the truck. The sound sensor can also be muted by clicking on the speaker icon",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 11 lvl",
    		"      ●Place these sound sensors down in locations where you want to track any audio interactions",
    		"      ●Once placed, return to the Truck, you can listen to the remote playback whilst checking the Sound Sensor screen to see if any of the Sensors receive any readings",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Ranges (m): 5, 10",
			"         ●Sensor Shape: Full",
			"         ●Placeable",
			"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 32 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●This sound sensor has been improved to feature three different size settings, togglable with a size button on the Sound Sensor screen in the truck",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Ranges (m): 5, 10, 15",
    		"         ●Sensor Shape: Full",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 58 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 1,500",
    		"      ●The tripod has rotational joints on it, allowing you to Interact with it to change the shape of the Sound Sensor",
    		"      ●Each shape is represented by the directions that the microphones are facing:",
    		"      ●Forward: Cone / Outward: Sides / Inward: Sphere",
    		"      ●The Tier III Sound Sensor has two additional modes which can be switched to by interacting with it while it is placed, or toggling directly while in hand. These modes can't be switched from the truck",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Ranges (m): 5, 10, 15",
    		"         ●Sensor Shape: Full",
    		"         ●Sensor Shape: Wide",
    		"         ●Sensor Shape: Sides",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Electronic",
			"",
			"  ●Tripod Max:4",
    		"    Picking up a video camera and placing it on top of the tripod will mount the camera on the tripod. Carrying the tripod afterwards will bring the camera along as well, so the player does not need to carry both an empty tripod and an unmounted video camera. The video camera can be removed from the tripod by grabbing it",
    		"    A tripod can be placed by dropping it, making it drop below the player in the direction they are facing. Tripods can also be placed via the Secondary Use key; holding this key will show a translucent outline of its placement, which can be adjusted by moving the mouse left or right. Tripods are bulky items, and thus take up your hand slot while carrying it; they cannot be stored in your inventory, and switching to another item or hand while carrying a tripod will automatically drop the tripod. Additionally, tripods will hinder player movements when walked through, forcing player to more carefully chose where to place them",
    		"    The tripod will allow players to position video cameras in places where no suitable surface is available, but will also reduce the likeliness of the ghost knocking over the camera than if it was placed down on its own. The stability of the tripod against ghost tempering will depend on its tier",
    		"    Additionally, Tier II and III tripods have a motorized mount, allowing to rotate the camera left or right by using the arrows in the bottom right corner of the computer in the truck",
			"",
			"    Tier I",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 10 lvl",
    		"      ●Attach a Video Camera to this Tripod by Placing it on top. You can then carry the Tripod and Place it in locations that may not have a good surface for viewing paranormal activity",
    		"      ●Ghosts may interfere with your placed cameras and attempt to knock them over, make sure to reset them back up if they are pushed to the floor",
    		"      Properties",
			"         ●Stability: Low",
			"         ●Placeable",
			"",
			"    Tier II",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 34 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 5,000",
    		"      ●This Tripod has been upgraded with a rotational motor. While viewing the Video Camera’s view from the truck, you can use the on-screen controls to rotate the tripod motor, giving you a new angle",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Stability: Medium",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Rotation Control",
			"",
			"    Tier III",
    		"      ●Unlocked: 62 lvl",
    		"      ●Upgrade Cost: 3,000",
    		"      ●Like its previous versions, this Tripod is similar except much sturdier, those pesky ghosts should knock it over much less frequently",
    		"      Properties",
    		"         ●Stability: High",
    		"         ●Placeable",
    		"         ●Rotation Control",
			"",
    		"●Truck equipment:",
    		"  Equipment located in the truck is stationary",
			"",
			"  ●Objective Board",
    		"    Displays all primary and optional objectives",
    		"    In regular gameplay, the board will display the following information:",
    		"      ●The case number",
    		"      ●The ghost's name",
    		"      ●3 objectives",
    		"      ●Whether the ghost responds to everyone or only people that are alone (this information is not provided on Professional, Nightmare, and Insanity difficulties)",
    		"      ●A preview photo of the map and up to 10 more photo slots that can be filled",
			"",
			"  ●Site Map",
    		"    The Site Map is a screen located within the starting Truck, being the top left screen. Beyond giving the name and layout of the current map, it also highlights many map details, including:",
    		"      ●The present location of players, coded to their color on the Sanity Monitor, additionally giving a small light glow to indicate which direction they're facing",
    		"      ●The positioning of CCTV cameras",
    		"      ●The location of the fuse box, depending on Difficulty",
    		"    Depending on the map, the Site Map may either be a birds-eye view of the whole area, including outside sections, with visible props, textures and lighting (all maps added since 0.4.0); or a simplistic, greyed-out outline of only the investigation area's general layout and geometry (all older maps). In the case of maps where only the geometry is given, a few further points of interest are highlighted:",
    		"      ●Windows, which are marked with a red line",
    		"      ●Exit doors, which are marked with a green line",
    		"      ●Staircases to different floors, indicated with a simplistic graphic and an arrow pointing towards the direction that the stairs are accessed to reach the next floor",
    		"    On both styles of the Site Map, a couple pieces of Equipment are visible on it when placed:",
    		"      ●Motion Sensors, which show a red bar extending a short distance outward. The bar will flash green and make an audible beep when the motion sensor is activated",
    		"      ●Sound Sensors, which produce a translucent orange sphere showing its effective area",
    		"    Two arrows can be found on the left side of the screen, which can be used by left-clicking on them to switch to either the next floor up or down. These arrows do not \"wrap around\" when reaching the uppermost or lowermost floor; the opposing arrow must be clicked to switch floors",
			"",
			"  ●Sanity Monitor",
    		"    The Sanity Monitor is a screen in the truck labelled \"Team Sanity\". It reads both the sanity of individual players as well as the average sanity of the team, both expressed as a percentage. The Sanity Monitor is not perfectly accurate, as it will oscillate by +/-2% in order for sanity to be perceived as more organic. Despite this inherent inaccuracy, it is still critical to gleaming player sanity levels, and by that extent seeing how aggressive the ghost will be; as average sanity decreases, hunts will occur with increasing frequency",
    		"    The player will always view themselves as the first person listed on the monitor, followed by any other players in the order that they loaded into the map. Players who are yet to load into the map show up on the Sanity Monitor with their name shown as \"Loading...\", and a hyphen in place of their sanity. Dead players will have their sanity value replaced with a \"?\" instead. Players who have left the game will disappear from the sanity monitor entirely",
    		"    In Nightmare and Insanity difficulties, the Sanity Monitor is damaged, and will give random readings, becoming essentially useless. Use of an Ouija Board, if available, is thus the only feasible way to get a good estimate of one's current sanity",
			"",
			"  ●Site Activity Monitor",
    		"    The Site Activity Monitor is the fourth monitor on the wall of the Truck, which shows the current activity ranging from 0 to 10, roughly matching the readings of an EMF Reader. A low reading may indicate little to no recent activity, while a high reading may mean high levels of ghost activity",
    		"    On Nightmare and Insanity difficulties, the Site Activity Monitor is damaged and gives random readings, causing it to be useless and preventing players from discerning ghost activity by using it",
    		"    The Site Activity Monitor shows an aggregate of all EMF spots (\"strength\") in the map over the last 60 seconds. The current strength is read at t = 0. For each interaction that results in an EMF reading, the level of activity shown on the monitor will increase by that corresponding level of EMF, plus an additional integer modifier between -2 and 0 per interaction",
    		"    During a hunt, the activity level will always be 10. However, having an activity level of 10 does not necessarily indicate that a hunt is ongoing or is about to occur; the ghost could have manifested, or simply interacted with multiple objects at once or in quick succession. Though the Site Activity Monitor only goes up to 10, the actual total amount of EMF at any one time may exceed 10. Similarly, an activity level of 0 usually, but does not always mean no activity; the ghost could have performed an EMF 2 interaction that was adjusted to show as level 0 on the monitor",
			"",
			"  ●Computer",
    		"    The computer is an equipment located on a desk in the truck. By default, it displays a screensaver, but when the player approaches it, it displays a live feed of any currently-active camera on the map, including video cameras, Tier I Head Gear, and the location's video feed. Left-clicking the mouse will cycle through all active cameras, while left-clicking the keyboard will toggle the night vision of the camera that is currently being displayed",
    		"    The use of the computer in tandem with video cameras allows for the safe gathering of some evidence types: Ghost Orbs, Ghost Writing, Ultraviolet and D.O.T.S. Projector can all be observed through the screen with proper positioning of the camera and the relevant equipment",
			"",
			"  ●Sound Monitor",
    		"    The Sound Monitor is a screen in the Truck labelled \"Sound Sensors\". The screen will list up to 4 separate sound sensors in a horizontal bar graph format. When placing sound sensors inside a playable area, it will label the sensor on the sound monitor according to in which area it was placed. Sound sensors pick up the sound level in an area around it, indicated by the associated orange graphic of their radius on the Site Map",
    		"    Sounds picked up on the sensors will show as a yellow bar indicated in percentage, depending on the volume of the noise detected, and it will play a live audio feed into the Truck, potentially allowing for Evidence such as EMF Level 5 and Ghost Writing without having to be inside the building",
    		"    0.1 dB picked up on a Parabolic Microphone is equivalent to 1% on the Sound Monitor",
    		"    Using sound sensors and keeping an eye on the sound monitor can be useful in finding the ghost's location early",
			"",
			"  ●Clipboards",
    		"    Shows the current Daily and Weekly Tasks",
			"",
    		"●Cursed items/bonus equipment",
    		"  There are a few items found exclusively at the location that can provide a photo reward, and cannot be directly purchased",
    		"  Information about cursed items you can find in specific tab",
			"",
			"  ●Bones",
    		"    Every contract, one bone will spawn in a random location within the investigation area. The bone will spawn in a location that is accessible by the ghost, to reduce the risk of players being unable to retrieve it. One bone type of the human body will be randomly chosen for each contract",
    		"    The player can pick up the bone, causing it to disappear. The bone cannot be made to reappear for the rest of the contract once it has been picked up. Picking up the bone does not count against how many items one can carry",
    		"    Once a type of bone has been picked up for the first time, it will appear in the display case in the lobby. Certain bones (such as hands and feet) must be collected twice to complete the collection",
    		"    Taking a picture of the bone will yield up to $10 and 10XP depending on the distance the photo was taken from",
    		"    Separately, picking up the bone will also yield the base rewards, which will vary based on map size:",
    		"      ●Small - 25$ 25XP",
    		"      ●Medium - 35$ 35XP",
    		"      ●Large - 50$ 50XP",
			"",
    		"●Consumable Equipment",
    		"  Some equipment is consumable, and will need to be re-purchased after it has been used on an investigation. This includes:",
			"    ●Crucifix (All Tiers)",
			"    ●Firelight (Tier I, Tier II)",
			"    ●Igniter (Tier I, Tier II)",
			"    ●Incense (Tier I, Tier II)",
			"    ●Sanity Medication (All Tiers)",
			"    ●Salt (All Tiers)"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Tips & Tricks",
		"Text":[
			"Basic:",
    		"  ●As the favourite room or the current location of the ghost can be a corridor, hallway, or large room, there may be difficulties for the players especially when it comes to the accurate use of equipment such as crucifixes and Incense",
    		"  ●Rooms on small maps containing stairways (i.e, basements in most houses, the Foyer on Ridgeview, etc.) will always include said stairway when chosen as a favourite room",
			"",
			"Evidences:",
    		"  ●EMF 5 is a random chance, so one would want to increase the chance of the ghost interacting with the environment. One can place some props in the ghost room for the ghost to throw. Make sure to turn off the room lights, as ghosts cannot throw items if the lights in its current room are on. Smudging the ghost or saying recognised phrases near the ghost can mildly increase the chance/rate of interactions",
    		"  ●It is possible to \"guess\" EMF Level 5 as an evidence using the site activity monitor, though this is not guaranteed. This is because the site activity monitor is an approximate representation of the total EMF currently present in the map, with a modifier of 0, -1 or -2 for each EMF generated. Hence, EMF level 5 can be \"guessed\" if multiple straight-line jumps of 4 and 5 levels are observed, especially if no players are currently inside the investigation area. Though an EMF 5 emission can be represented by an activity change of 3 levels, an EMF 3 is just as likely to do the same, so a jump of 3 levels is generally ignored",
			"",
    		"  ●Temperatures only decrease when the ghost is within a room, and although the ghost is more likely to stay in its ghost room, making it colder, freezing temperatures do not necessarily indicate the ghost room",
    		"  ●Additionally, temperatures do not return to normal immediately after a ghost leaves a room. This means that multiple rooms can be freezing at once, and that players should not assume that low or freezing temperatures guarantees that the ghost is still in that room",
    		"  ●Since 0.9.0, seeing cold breath is not an indicator of Freezing Temperatures",
    		"  ●If the fuse box is turned off at the start, Freezing Temperatures may be obtained quicker, depending on the weather and how often the ghost roams into other rooms. In particular, one could theoretically observe Freezing Temperatures in approximately two minutes if it is snowing, as long as the ghost stays in the same room for long enough",
    		"  ●As of 0.9.0, temperatures drop at 1/3 the current speed, if the temperature is below the weather's ambient temperature",
    		"  ●Nearly all ghosts can initiate an \"airball\" ghost event which is visually similar to the player's breath, other than in movement. The airball does not count as an indicator for low temperatures. The main difference is that the airball event usually moves towards a particular player, while cold breath never moves by itself",
			"",
    		"  ●For each type of door or surface that a fingerprint is possible, the fingerprint will always appear in the same spot. In addition, most doors of the same model will always have the fingerprints on only the push or pull side, but not both. For example, all Farmhouse-style doors will always have the fingerprints on the top-right corner of the door, and only appear on the \"push\" side. There are a few exceptions to these two rules; for example, one street/road house-style door may have the fingerprint on the \"push\" side while another identical door has it on the \"pull\" side, though they will always appear on the middle of the door",
    		"  ●Footprints can be useful to check for Ultraviolet evidence if the ghost is not interacting with doors in a timely fashion",
    		"  ●Footprints can sometimes be covered by certain furniture or carpets",
			"",
    		"  ●If a ghost throws a Ghost Writing Book, then it either does not have Ghost Writing as evidence, or is hiding it on reduced-evidence difficulties",
			"",
    		"  ●Because of the periodical moving of Ghost Orbs, searching for them with a hand-held Video Camera is often better than relying on stationary cameras. In addition, this eliminates back-and-forth trips to the truck, especially on larger maps where sanity preservation is more important",
    		"  ●A player in the truck can view their teammates' Tier I head gear during the initial search for the ghost room to search for Ghost Orbs",
    		"  ●If viewing the camera feed from the truck, camera placement is key to detecting Ghost Orbs. A good strategy for detecting them is placing two video cameras in the corners of the room facing each other to maximize coverage, or using a Tier 2 or 3 tripod to rotate the camera",
    		"  ●Using video cameras to peer through exit doors, garage doors or windows may allow the player to find Ghost Orbs even before entering the investigation area",
    		"  ●Ghost Orbs tend to show up in regular intervals. If none are seen for a long time, try moving the video camera or switch to another one",
    		"  ●In outdoor areas such as on Maple Lodge Campsite, Ghost Orbs can be hard to see in bad weather conditions (primarily rain, snow, and fog). A hint to distinguishing them from snowflakes is that Ghost Orbs tend to float more horizontally and, sometimes, even upwards (compared to snowflakes always falling down). Additionally, snowflakes are generally dark, while orbs will be bright",
    		"  ●It is best to check for Ghost Orbs when the room's lights are off. When on, the brightness may hide the Orbs from sight",
			"",
    		"Equipment:",
    		"  ●A good way to see the D.O.T.S silhouette clearly is to have the room lights turned off and use a video camera with night vision on, then look either directly through the video camera screen or the computer. This will increase the silhouette's contrast against the background. Having two D.O.T.S Projectors placed can allow the silhouette to be visible for longer as it moves across the lighting radius",
    		"  ●If the favourite room is small, consider placing the D.O.T.S Projector in a neighbouring room to aid visibility",
    		"  ●The Projector emits a substantial amount of light when placed. Investigators can use them for illumination, especially with a spare Projector or when D.O.T.S evidence can be safely crossed off. Note that the D.O.T.S projector light does not mitigate sanity drain",
    		"  ●The Tier II and III D.O.T.S Projectors can be placed on some ceilings in a few maps, which may allow the light to cover a room with much more consistency. This is especially useful for the tier III projector, whose sweeping motions and cone-shaped light area can cause the ghost to potentially leave its light prematurely depending on the ghost's and the projector's movement",
    		"  ●The green light emitted may obscure nearby fingerprints or footprints; look carefully or remove the projector when checking for ultraviolet evidence",
    		"  ●Some visual effects such as freezing breath or Incense smoke will reflect the D.O.T.S Projector's light. Be careful to not confuse them with a D.O.T.S silhouette",
    		"  ●The tier III D.O.T.S Projector emits a constant motor whirring sound when active, which can both be quite annoying and interfere with the player's hearing when trying to listen for ghost activity. If you press Interact when pointing at the projector, it will stop in its current position, allowing it to operate in complete silence at the cost of covering a smaller area; interacting again will turn it off completely, and interacting a third time will turn it back on again",
			"",
    		"  ●If players are looking for evidence of EMF Level 5, players should use the reader every time the ghost touches an object or surface, and within the 20 second period that the EMF will be active for",
    		"  ●It may be possible to mishear a pitch for EMF 5, especially with certain speakers. Visually read off the EMF level to be certain",
    		"  ●EMF Readers, especially Tier II readers, create a substantial amount of noise when malfunctioning, making discarded ones good beacons of the ghost's general location during a hunt",
			"",
    		"  ●If placed within the vision of an active video camera, you can use the Video Feed in the truck to watch ghost writing books and see if ghost writing is occurring. While it may be much more difficult to see if there are any markings in the pages on camera, more observant players may check if the pen is missing from the book to determine if ghost writing has occurred or not",
    		"  ●A nearby sound sensor can be also used to monitor a Ghost Writing Book from the truck; this will allow players to hear the sound of Ghost Writing occuring without having to actively monitor the book",
    		"  ●The ghost will try to write in a book every 45 to 90 seconds. The higher the tier of the book is, the more likely it is to succeed. Writing will only happen if the ghost is in the interaction range of the book. Using both books to cover the whole room can increase the chance of getting Ghost Writing",
    		"  ●If you notice that the ghost writing book has been thrown, check whether it already has writing before eliminating Ghost Writing as an evidence",
			"",
    		"  ●It is recommended that the Spirit Box be used early on in the investigation as soon as the presumed favourite room has been found as using it effectively required a player to remain alone in the dark with the ghost for several seconds, thus considerably reducing their sanity and allowing a potential hunt to start. This is especially true for higher difficulties",
    		"  ●As the Spirit Box emits a constant static when turned on, it may interfere with the ability to hear ghost activities properly. Turning it off is recommended when not in use",
    		"  ●Ghost replies on the Spirit Box do not count as ghost events or interactions",
    		"  ●The Spirit Box is considered an electronic equipment. When interfered with, all the LEDs/icons will flicker rapidly. During a hunt, holding an active Spirit Box within 7.5 metres of a ghost on the same floor will attract it to the player",
    		"  ●Ghost may still respond audibly if the player asks questions while the Spirit Box is being interfered with. This also counts as Spirit Box evidence",
			"",
    		"  ●Temperatures readings below the weather's ambient temperature (e.g. below 5°C in snowy weather) is generally an indication that the ghost is in (or was recently in) the room",
    		"  ●The tier II and III thermometers will continuously give out new readings when players hold Use after the initial reading while the tier I thermometer will refresh constantly, although at a much slower speed",
    		"  ●When using thermometers thrown on the floor, turning it off and on again or moving between rooms before attempting to read the temperature may help to reduce the risk of errors",
			"",
    		"  ●As of patch 0.9.0, UV prints must be illuminated by a UV light to take a successful photo",
    		"  ●Many regard the Tier II UV Light as superior to the Tier I and III versions, due to the fact that the player can simply throw the glowstick on the floor and it will continuously illuminate any prints nearby, and it is also not an electronic, allowing the player to use it as a light source during hunts without the ghost detecting it",
			"",
    		"  ●The video camera can also be used to maintain surveillance on areas such as hallways, rooms, and the fuse box. This can allow for easy viewing of certain stationary evidence like Fingerprints, Ghost Writing, EMF Level 5, salt, or D.O.T.S Projector. However, the video feed becomes extremely distorted whenever the ghost manifests during a Ghost Event or a hunt, making observation very difficult",
    		"  ●It is recommended to turn your flashlight (and room lights) off while using night vision",
			"",
    		"  ●Extra flashlights can be dropped within dark areas of the map to provide illumination that remains unaffected by the state of the fuse box (though is subject to electronic interference during a hunt). This may be helpful if a ghost tampers with the lights and/or fuse box frequently",
			"",
    		"  ●Although the crucifix works while held in-hand, it is strongly advised to place the crucifix on the ground, as this will free the player to do other objectives or hold onto more useful equipment during the investigation",
			"",
    		"  ●Placing firelights on the sides of tables, shelves, or other elevated objects may improve their lighting by covering a wider area",
    		"  ●In larger maps like Brownstone High School or Sunny Meadows Mental Institution, firelights may be helpful as navigation markers for important areas such as the fuse box, ghost room, or exit door(s), also providing some helpful sanity drain reduction as a bonus, though they are not as reliable as spare UV lights or flashlights, as firelights both burn out after a time (except for tier III) and can be blown out by the ghost",
    		"  ●As firelights are not electronic, they are not affected by hunts and will continue to provide a steady light source, and do not attract the ghost either, allowing players to use Firelights as light sources to navigate during hunts. The downside is that players may not be able to tell when a hunt is occurring, especially if the ghost is too far away to be heard",
    		"  ●In Sunny Meadows and its Restricted version, the candles in the chapel are lit by default and may be extinguished by the ghost, allowing the \"Get the Ghost to blow out a Firelight\" objective to be completed automatically without using an Igniter or Firelight. However, this might also cause an unexpected early hunt if the ghost is an Onryo",
			"",
    		"  ●While using tier I igniters, it is quicker to pick up, light and place firelights than to wait for the match-striking animation",
    		"  ●Shortly after being blown out, taking a picture of an igniter with a Photo Camera will yield an easy interaction photo",
			"",
    		"  ●When lighting incense near a ghost during a hunt, the ghost may coincidentally take the same path as a player, especially in tight hallways. It does not mean that the ghost can still see the player. Light the incense near (but not in) a hiding spot, so that you can reach it before the ghost is no longer blind",
    		"  ●If you are not the host, and especially if there is some latency between you and the server, the game may register the ghost killing the player before the incense effect actually applies. To avoid this, try lighting the incense earlier",
			"",
    		"  ●Placing motion sensors at corners or room boundaries can help to track where the ghost is",
			"",
    		"  ●The player should remain aware of other noise disturbances, such as doors being opened or closed by players. Coordinate with others and communicate to know whether a sound might have originated from a player or the ghost",
			"",
    		"  ●If placed strategically, salt can be used to track exactly where the ghost is walking after it has been located, potentially to the players' advantage",
    		"  ●Placing salt close to external corners in wide hallways or rooms with acute angles will maximize the chances of the ghost stepping in the salt. This is because the ghost is programmed to take the shortest route to its next waypoint when wandering, therefore it is more likely to navigate by hugging corners and other turns",
    		"  ●Dropping a UV Light near the salt pile will illuminate any footprints present without having to hold the UV light",
    		"  ●Using tier III salt can help in taking 3-star ghost photos during hunts as it slows down the ghost",
			"",
    		"  ●Strategically used, sanity medication can help to stave off hunts by bringing the average sanity back above the ghost's hunt sanity threshold. They can also be used to allow for further usage of cursed possessions such as Ouija Boards, to avoid breaking the possession. Sanity medication could even be used to identify ghosts based by seeing if they hunt above a certain threshold (e.g. Shade), or by performing a test for the Moroi",
    		"  ●If one's aim is to delay hunts through sanity medication, specifically on multiplayer, one possible way to do this would be to distribute the sanity medication so that the overall sanity drain is slower on average",
    		"    ●For example, if just one player is at 0% sanity and the remaining players have enough sanity to be above the hunt threshold, then these remaining players should take the sanity medication instead of the 0% player. This would make it so that less players are reducing the average sanity of the entire team",
    		"    ●Another example is when all players are at varying levels of sanity; the players who tend to manage their sanity better could take the sanity medication, as long as this keeps the average sanity above the hunt threshold",
    		"  ●Note that results may vary depending on factors such as the hunt sanity threshold, the ghost type, or players dying",
			"",
    		"  ●Placing sound sensors in a central area of several rooms is a good way to cover a lot of ground when looking for the ghost's location early on",
    		"  ●Sound sensors detect the noise of the Haunted Mirror if it is in their range",
			"",
    		"  ●The rotation feature of the Tier II and III tripods may allow players to observe the entirety of the room with a single camera, allowing to more easily find Ghost orbs or track the ghost during a hunt",
			"",
    		"Cursed Items:",
    		"  ●Taking a photo of a cursed items, used or not, will yield a photo labelled as this item, and reward up to $5 and 5XP, depending on the distance it was taken from",
			"",
    		"  ●The Monkey Paw is one of the most versatile cursed possessions in the game, and can assist players in the completion of most objectives, especially as players can control when and where to employ its effects in order to quickly reach safety",
    		"  ●If not using the text UI, the Monkey Paw is always active when held. Be careful when speaking while holding it as you may accidentally call upon a wish",
    		"     ●This is especially notable when using push-to-talk, as there are bugs that make the Monkey Paw listen to the player even if no voice chat button is being pressed",
    		"  ●The vision loss from wishes is very significant, making it near impossible for a player afflicted by it to see more than a meter or so in front of them. While this can be partially circumvented by setting game brightness to a very high value, the affected player will be more or less rendered helpless and will need to be guarded accordingly",
			"",
    		"  ●The music box can be broken down into two primary uses:",
    		"     1) utilize the triggered ghost event and following hunt to complete relevant objectives or to identify the ghost type. Like with any other hunt-related activity, Smudge Sticks are highly recommended to avoid death",
    		"     2) get the ghost to broadcast its current position to narrow down and locate its favourite room",
    		"  ●The music box is an easy way to obtain a ghost photo. In multiplayer games, one way is to have the photographer carry the smudge stick while another player activates the music box. The player holding the music box should refill their sanity to a comfortable level to avoid a 0% sanity-triggered hunt",
			"",
    		"  ●Breaking the Ouija Board can be useful for completing several hunt-related objectives or earning photo rewards by taking a picture of the ghost",
    		"  ●You can quickly decrease a player's sanity by using the Ouija Board repeatedly, even while it's in the middle of answering another question",
    		"  ●You can repeatedly ask low-cost questions with the Ouija Board in order to create numerous interactions; with an EMF Reader nearby, EMF level 5 reading may be quickly attained, as each question has a 1/4 chance to give off the evidence",
    		"  ●When using voice chat to ask questions, wait at least a few seconds for the board to respond before asking again, to avoid breaking the board when asking high sanity-deducting questions",
			"",
    		"  ●Using a Tier 3 crucifix in range of the Summoning Circle will prevent the cursed hunt triggered after summoning the ghost, virtually removing the risk of the Circle",
    		"  ●To prevent a hunt starting before the ghost can be summoned, use incense or place crucifixes near the ghost just before lighting the circle",
    		"  ●Where needed, most Optional Objectives can be completed directly or indirectly using the Summoning Circle",
    		"     ●As such, it is best saved for after the ghost has been identified to quickly complete them",
    		"  ●Taking a photo of the centre of the circle will suffice, instead of attempting to have the entire circle in the photo",
			"",
    		"  ●The player should not draw a card during a hunt, since all cards drawn will be The Fool",
    		"  ●Players should take a photo of the cards before using them, as once all of the cards are used, the deck will disappear and no photo can be taken",
    		"  ●Though tarot cards cannot be drawn outside of the investigation area, this can currently be bypassed by drawing a card and leaving while the animation is still ongoing. The card will still take effect",
    		"     ●If, while using this method, no players are inside, drawing The Devil will do nothing, and drawing Death will not trigger a hunt but will still extend the duration of subsequent hunts",
    		"  ●Trying to take a ghost photo after drawing The Devil can sometimes be tricky, as the card's burning animation needs to be completed before the player can drop the deck. If the triggered event is a singing ghost event, taking the photo will be easier, as this type of event usually lasts longer than the others",
    		"      ●When playing in multiplayer, good coordination is useful if players want to take a ghost photo",
			"",
    		"  ●The voodoo doll is best saved for after the favourite room has been found. Use it for the ghost to interact with evidence sources rather than waiting extended periods for the ghost to do it on its own",
    		"  ●When using the voodoo doll with no sanity, all pressed remaining pins may cause multiple objects to be thrown at the same time. Be mindful of this to not confuse the ghost with a Poltergeist",
			""
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"T&T about Ghosts",
		"Text":[
			"Banshee",
        	"    ●Identifying the target player of a Banshee both conclusively identifies it and can provide players with a significant edge, such as making hunt-related objectives much easier, and enabling the other players to continue investigating during hunts with impunity, though it is important to note that the target player must be inside the investigation area for this to be applicable. Alternatively, the target player can altogether prevent hunts indefinitely by topping up their sanity with Sanity Medication and staying outside the investigation area to never drop below the hunt threshold, for a completely safe investigation. There are several methods players may use to identify a Banshee's target:",
        	"      ●Banshees will only check for the individual sanity level of the target player when attempting to hunt; be mindful of mistaking it with ghosts that have different hunt sanity thresholds such as Demons or Shades",
        	"      ●Having players act as \"bait\" with Incense and/or escape routes ready can definitively identify the target",
        	"        ●Be aware that the Banshee might coincidentally wander towards a player after it has lost sight of its target, especially in hallways or cluttered rooms, giving the impression that it is chasing that player. In that case, observe its line of sight acceleration or attempt to move out of its way to see if the ghost is actively following you",
        	"      ●Banshees tend to wander towards their target outside of hunts; a player reporting frequent activity or even hunts starting near them and far away from the ghost room is most likely the target. Using motion sensors and salt can help to track the ghost's location",
        	"    ●Note that if the target player dies or disconnects, a new target will be selected. This also applies on Nightmare/Insanity difficulty or when the \"Kills extend hunts\" setting is turned on: if the Banshee manages to kill its target, it will immediately select another player and continue hunting",
        	"    ●On singleplayer, determining the Banshee by its target ability is impossible, making it much more difficult to identify through behavior alone, so one must rely on other potential tells or pieces of evidence",
			"",
      		"Demon",
      		"    ●Generally, it is best to think of the Demon as having a 100% hunt sanity threshold, even if its hunts are rarer above 70% average sanity",
      		"    ●To identify a Demon by its traits, players may time the cooldown between hunts, or watch out for signs of a very early hunt. Given the Demon's relative aggressiveness in hunting, players should plan their route to the ghost room and what they wish to bring for any objectives, while considering whether to hide or to use Incense on the ghost if it hunts. Sprint may need to be conserved once approaching the ghost room in order to make a quick escape in the event of a sudden hunt. If a very early hunt occurs, make sure to rule out the possibility of a cursed hunt caused by another player using a cursed possession without the rest of the team's knowledge",
      		"    ●With the crucifix's increased effective range, preventing hunts will generally be easier, though difficulties may still be encountered in massive rooms, such as the Basketball Court of Brownstone High School",
      		"    Identification",
      		"      ●Players can use two tests:",
      		"        ●Time the hunt cooldown: a cooldown of less than 25 seconds (excluding hunts caused by cursed possessions) may indicate a Demon. If it uses a crucifix charge in this time, this may also be indicative of a Demon",
      		"        ●Time the smudge hunt prevention: a ghost hunting between 60 - 90 seconds after being smudged correctly may indicate a Demon",
      		"      ●Take care to ensure that the timing is correct to avoid misidentification. Usage of a stopwatch may be helpful. In particular, if a ghost is still under the effect of a previous smudge, smudging again will not reset the timer, which may throw off timing; wait for the ghost to attempt another hunt before smudging again. Note that ghosts do not necessarily hunt after the cooldown is over; having hunts consistently being more than 25 seconds apart does not necessarily eliminate the Demon as a possibility",
			"",
			"Deogen",
    		"    Hunt",
    		"      ●If you have not ruled the Deogen out, it is best to choose a hiding spot which you can easily leave before the Deogen corners you, or have Incense prepared. Once a Deogen is close enough to the player for its weakness to kick in, it becomes the slowest ghost in the game. Provided players do not accidentally trap themselves in a tight space with no way out, surviving a Deogen is almost trivial as it is impossible for it to catch up to its targets so long as they keep moving, as it becomes so slow that it is slower than the player's default movement speed. In some cases, it may even be possible to skirt the ghost in a way that would normally be impossible with other ghosts, such as in the kitchen of 42 Edgefield Road. Looping the Deogen around a piece of furniture (e.g. a kitchen island) at a moderate speed is common practice; on bigger maps such as Sunny Meadows or Brownstone High School, the player might not even have to loop it, and can simply walk around the map and lead it on a tour",
    		"      ●It is worth noting that when the Deogen is stunned with smudge sticks, it will maintain the speed at it was at when affected; in most cases, the Deogen will be moving at its minimum speed, meaning that the Deogen will only roam a very short distance before being able to chase players again",
    		"      ●When playing in multiplayer, keep server lag in mind; if you misjudge the ghost's server-side position and move away too late, it may kill you. Since the Deogen only switches targets periodically and not in real time, avoid having players stand behind each other to prevent the Deogen from rushing into another player to reach its target, because the Deogen can kill non-targets unlike the Banshee",
    		"    Identification",
    		"      ●The most straightforward form of identification is for the ghost to hunt; if it approaches the nearest player at high speeds and slows down drastically as it approaches, then it is a Deogen. Note that a \"young\" Thaye, a Revenant that has detected someone, and a Hantu when the power has been out for a while and room temperatures are at their lowest, may move at similar speeds, but without slowing down drastically (if at all); mistaking them for a Deogen can be deadly. A non-hunt way would be to constantly track the ghost and look for the signature heavy breathing through the spirit box, though this will be more tedious, especially in large rooms. The easiest way to do this is using a Tier III Motion Sensor; because the spherical radius of the sensor is only slightly larger than the distance required to obtain heavy breathing, using the Spirit Box on top of the Motion Sensor when it triggers has a good chance of producing the unique Deogen response",
    		"    Miscellaneous",
    		"      ●Deogens are among the easiest ghosts to take a ghost photo of, partly due to being invisible for shorter and visible for longer, and partly due to their hunt mechanics meaning they almost always end up staying near a player, giving players plenty of time to snap a photo; keep a photo camera handy if needed",
			"",
			"Goryo",
			"    ●It is necessary to have a Video Camera either placed facing an active D.O.T.S. Projector, or held by a player outside the ghost's room. If D.O.T.S. evidence is visible in the camera's screen, but invisible in direct view, the ghost is likely to be a Goryo. Conversely, if D.O.T.S. is seen without the aid of a video camera, a Goryo can be safely ruled out. Turning up device or in-game brightness may help when trying to rule out a Goryo",
        	"    ●Ghost events only need the player to be somewhat near the ghost, and the ghost does not need to roam to perform them, only teleporting if applicable. Hence, having ghost events happening a distance away from the favourite room does not rule out the Goryo",
        	"    ●If you do not obtain D.O.T.S Projector as one of the ghost's evidences on Nightmare/Insanity difficulty or on a limited evidence custom game (1/2 evidence), then the Goryo can be safely ruled out. On a 0 evidence run, the Goryo is near-impossible to identify with certainty, as it cannot be identified through its D.O.T.S ability; Try waiting a while to see if the ghost changes its favourite room at low sanity, or use motion sensors and salt to track how far it travels in one go",
			"",
			"Hantu",
			"    ●Temperature plays an important role in both identifying and defending against a Hantu. In general, Hantus will be most powerful within and near the ghost room, where low and freezing temperatures are most likely to be. Thus, it is important that players get away from the ghost (room) as soon as a hunt begins, as the Hantu can quickly catch someone within its vicinity. Hantus are particularly dangerous during Light Snow weather, especially on the outdoors maps of Maple Lodge Campsite and Camp Woodwind, as ambient room temperatures will generally be lower if the fuse box is off, boosting their speed during a hunt",
        	"    ●In general, leaving the breaker turned on is a safer strategy, though one can also turn it off to aid in identification, if needed",
        	"    Identification",
        	"      ●There are three ways to identify a Hantu:",
        	"        ●Leave the fuse box turned on for a while, then listen for its speed during a hunt. If it is faster in colder rooms (usually, but not always the favourite room), and slower than a normal ghost in a warm room, then it is a Hantu",
        	"          ●If it is a Raiju, then the ghost will be fast near active electronics and a normal speed outside a specified range. If this is a no-evidence game, try removing all electronics first. If at least one piece of evidence is provided, then having Freezing Temperatures as a piece of evidence will eliminate Raiju",
        	"          ●The Moroi can also speed up over several hunts or even during a hunt, but as a result of gradually lowering average sanity instead. Ensure that all players maintain their sanities at a constant level",
        	"        ●Leave the breaker turned on for a while, then loop it around a large piece of furniture in a warm room during a hunt, carrying Incense to avoid death. If the ghost does not speed up quickly with line-of-sight (within ~10 seconds), then it is likely a Hantu. It is worth noting the mere presence of the ghost in that room will cool it down and make it increasingly harder to loop over time; this is usually irrelevant in small maps which have shorter hunt durations, and looping a Hantu for an entire hunt is feasible, but on medium and large maps and/or when the hunt duration is extended by cursed hunts, such looping should not be done over an extended period of time, or alternatively one should utilize a loop or series of loops that spans multiple rooms",
        	"        ●The Hantu's ability to emit freezing breath when the breaker is off can be used to definitively identify it without evidence, though it is more risky than the above strategies. Look closely! Use Incense to stun it while it's hunting",
        	"      ●If you do not obtain Freezing Temperatures as one of the ghost's types of evidence on a limited evidence custom game (1/2 evidence), then the Hantu can be safely ruled out",
        	"      ●The Hantu is one of two ghosts (the other being the Onryo) for which you can collect all three pieces of evidence without excluding The Mimic. Therefore, before concluding you're dealing with a Hantu, confirm that it is actually a Hantu using the above methods and/or check whether the Spirit Box gives a response. If it does, you have The Mimic instead",
			"",
			"Jinn",
			"    Turning off the location's breaker will prevent the Jinn from using any of its abilities. However, this will render the map's electrical lights inactive, leading to players' sanity draining as a consequence of being in the dark more often. Players will need to decide if preventing the Jinn from using its abilities is worth dealing with more frequent hunts as a result of lower average sanity, though this loss can be mitigated by holding lit candles to reduce passive sanity drain",
        	"    Identification",
          	"      ●There are two ways to identify a Jinn, both methods with the breaker turned on:",
          	"        ●Wait for a hunt at the end of a long room or corridor, standing far away from where the ghost is expected to enter the room, and with line-of-sight all the way through. Listen for its footsteps and observe its speed before and after it sees the player. If it instantly gains speed to chase the player, then it is likely a Jinn; use Incense if needed",
          	"        ●Leave an EMF reader at the fuse box while the fuse box is on; if it picks up a reading but the fuse box never turned off, then it is very likely the Jinn using its ability, barring any other items that could have caused the reading (such as the fuse box door itself)",
          	"      ●Keep in mind that a fuse box turning off on its own does not rule out a Jinn, as they can still indirectly turn off fuse boxes by turning on too many lights and causing the fuse box to trip. If a fuse box trips, all light switches will also turn off, which can be used to distinguish from a ghost manually turning the fuse box off, which leaves light switches untouched",
			"",
			"Mare",
			"    ●Players should be cautious when using the Spirit Box or looking for Ghost Orbs to verify the ghost's current location or favourite room, as the Mare is more likely to hunt when the lights in its room are off, potentially catching players dangerously close to the Mare when it begins to hunt",
        	"    ●Once a Mare is identified, there are two ways to counteract it:",
        	"      ●Leave the lights in its favourite room and neighbouring rooms turned on. This will lower its hunt sanity threshold",
        	"      ●Once the sanity threshold is below 40%, the Mare will be able to hunt regardless of whether the lights are on or not. Hence, it may be wise to leave the lights in its favourite room turned off. This way, the Mare is less likely to wander away, and will be more likely to hunt in that room, making it less dangerous than a case where the Mare is constantly roaming into other rooms (and possibly changing its favourite room)",
        	"    ●In both cases, keeping a player near the light switches can help to counteract the Mare's ability if they are turned off by the ghost or from an electrical overload",
        	"    ●Whether the lights are turned on or off do not affect the Mare's chance of performing a light-shattering ghost event. Where possible, avoid staying in rooms where you want the lights turned on, so that the Mare is less likely to shatter them",
        	"    Identification",
        	"      ●The Mare is generally one of the more difficult ghosts to identify based on behaviour, though one can look for the following:",
        	"        ●The ability to turn a light back off the moment a player turns it on: try to pause a few seconds between turning the lights on",
        	"        ●A preference for light-shattering ghost events",
        	"        ●A ghost that hunts slightly earlier in the dark or slightly later in the light, though this is not very reliable",
        	"        ●If you tend to keep the lights near the ghost turned on, and you find the ghost frequently wandering into dark rooms that players have not entered, and changing favourite rooms frequently on Professional and Nightmare difficulties, then the ghost could be a Mare",
        	"      ●A ghost turning on the light directly eliminates the possibility of it being a Mare. On the other hand, any ghost may choose to never turn on a light throughout the entire game, so this negative should not be used to confirm the ghost type. In fact, any ghost may turn off a light immediately after you turn it on purely by chance. Ghost events which turn the lights off during/after do not count for this (Mare) ability",
			"",
			"Moroi",
			"    ●Given the Moroi's ability to drain sanity after responding through the Spirit Box, it is recommended to refrain from utilizing the Spirit Box after obtaining the first response. If necessary, only the player who previously asked questions should use the Spirit Box again. Where needed, timely intervention in the form of Sanity Medication can be used to break the curse. Usage of Parabolic Microphones should also be limited, and if required for an objective, should also be done by the player that previously used the Spirit Box",
        	"    Identification",
        	"    ●The easiest way to identify a Moroi is by paying attention to the ghost's speed:",
        	"      ●Listen for the ghost's speed both over multiple hunts and during a given hunt, as average sanity lowers; a ghost that speeds up over the course of multiple hunts as average sanity lowers, or gradually speeds up during wandering when all players are hiding, could be a Moroi. Remember to take into account line-of-sight acceleration, if applicable. Note that the Hantu will increase in speed if the fuse box is left off as the temperature in the map decreases, but it does not speed up through line-of-sight; either keep the fuse box turned on to avoid misidentification, or make sure that the ghost does not have the Hantu's signature freezing breath during a chase with the power off",
        	"      ●As an alternate strategy, Sanity Medication can be utilized during a hunt. As the Moroi's roaming speed changes in real time as average sanity changes, a significant increase of it while it's hunting will cause the Moroi to slow down, potentially identifying it in the span of a single hunt, while also potentially bolstering sanity enough to get the team above hunt range afterwards. All players should be hidden (or, most optimally, having been hidden from the start) to avoid the speed loss being confused for a ghost's deceleration from line-of-sight or the Revenant's losing track of players, and to wait a few seconds in order to get a read on its roaming speed before using the medication to note if the Moroi begins to slow down afterwards. Additionally, a marked degree of coordination in multiplayer is required, as multiple uses will be needed to raise average sanity enough to cause the Moroi to lose a definitive amount of speed. This strategy is much more reliable when using Tier II or III sanity medication in order to have sanity increase more quickly, which will both exacerbate this effect and reduce the odds that the hunt ends before sanity restoration kicks in sufficiently. Alternatively, if the player has high sanity levels, the opposite method can be done by using cursed possessions to rapidly drop sanity during a hunt and seeing if the Moroi speeds up",
        	"      ●If starting a cursed hunt early on during the contract, it is extremely likely that the average sanity will be above 45% and the Moroi's roaming speed will be its minimum 1.5 m/s, slower than most ghosts. Keep in mind The Twins will have a base speed of 1.53 m/s when starting a hunt at its present location, which is nearly indistinguishable from a Moroi's speed when above 45% sanity",
        	"    ●Another way to identify the Moroi is by smudging it during a hunt. The Moroi will be blinded for 7.5 seconds instead of 5. Noticing a blinding time longer than usual can indicate a Moroi. This will be more easily noticeable with tier II and tier III Incense as the ghost is slowed down during the blinding effect",
        	"    ●When the sanity monitor is available, one can also identify a Moroi based on its ability: if your sanity has drained much more than normal after a Spirit Box response or a whisper on the parabolic microphone, especially if you've been in fully lit rooms and/or holding a Firelight for extended periods of time, then you have most likely been cursed by a Moroi. Take into account sanity drain from ghost events, if any, as well as if you have used any cursed possessions throughout the mission",
			"",
			"Myling",
			"    Behavioural identification",
        	"      ●The best way to identify a Myling is taking advantage of the small difference between its audible range (12m) and the electronic interference range (10m), and having a rough intuition of these ranges. If the ghost's sounds are very faint or not audible at all at the threshold of the interference range, then it is probably a Myling. Note that this test is not valid if the ghost is on a different floor, since this will muffle the audible range. This can be tested in multiple ways, such as:",
        	"        ●Before a hunt, dropping an active (preferably silent) electronic equipment at your preferred hiding spot, then looking for the behaviour during the hunt",
        	"        ●Holding an active electronic equipment or using Global Chat during a hunt, with incense for protection",
        	"      ●Note that the Raiju has a larger interference range (15m), which may create a similar effect. Use other methods (such as ghost speed) to eliminate the Raiju",
        	"      Paranormal sounds",
        	"        ●Although the Myling creates paranormal sounds more often, this is generally unreliable due to randomisation, and that it is often difficult to pinpoint the ghost's exact location, leading to the player missing out on some sounds",
        	"    Surviving hunts",
        	"      ●On larger maps, especially in long hallways, it is prudent to visually look out for the ghost, as its reduced audible range gives it a mild advantage in catching a player off guard, while also gaining speed for longer if line-of-sight was achieved",
			"",
			"Obake",
			"    ●If the ghost touches a surface and leaves no fingerprints, then later leaves fingerprints on another surface, or vice versa, this usually points to the ghost being an Obake",
        	"    ●If an Obake is suspected, checking a touched surface with a UV Light each time it interacts with a door or the like is prudent to spotting the Obake's special fingerprints, both to maximize the chances of spotting them and to note any instances of them rapidly disappearing. Note that getting normal fingerprints, even several times repeatedly, does not rule out an Obake outright",
        	"    ●Although the Obake has a 75% chance to leave Ultraviolet evidence, due to probability, it is possible for the Obake to always leave fingerprints on surfaces that it touches much like any other ghost with Ultraviolet. It's also possible for an Obake to interact with nearby doors frequently enough that it can effectively \"mask\" an instance where it does not leave fingerprints during one interaction by instead providing them in a separate interaction moments later, as well as conceal its ability to quickly decay its fingerprints",
        	"    ●If you are on a zero-evidence run, the Obake will never produce fingerprints nor footprints, and hence can only be identified spotting its shapeshifting power during a hunt. In multiplayer, one player can stay in the investigation area and hide while other players can look through set-up cameras in safety while the ghost is hunting; in singleplayer, strong looping skills are very favorable in order to maintain sight on it for extended periods of time to catch it changing models during a flicker. Use of Incense or Tier III Salt can make the task significantly easier in that regard; This tends to become much easier if the ghost is using the child or Patient 07 model, as those models can also be crawling (or bent backwards in the case of Patient 07), and will reset to the normal standing posture when it shifts, resulting in a sudden, extremely obvious posture change for a single blink",
        	"    ●Note that there are difficulty settings that can change the default chance of a fingerprint being left on a surface, as well as the decay timer. Keep this in mind when playing on such custom difficulties",
			"",
			"Oni",
			"    ●With increased activity in general, the Oni may more readily give up evidence to players, which can make for generous and swift investigations if an Oni is quick to reveal the necessary evidence",
        	"    ●Since the Oni cannot perform the airball ghost event, an Oni can be ruled out if the ghost performs such an event. It must be emphasised that the Oni can hiss as part of a chasing event. A way to differentiate the chasing event is that you will hear the (random) ghost vocalisation and footsteps, and doors in the room will usually close (if any). Also, there are four hiss sounds that an airball event cannot do; only one hiss sound is shared by airball and chasing events",
        	"    ●While not a particularly aggressive ghost, as the Oni is more likely to trigger ghost events against hunters, it may more rapidly bring the team down to hunt sanity threshold, especially when factoring in its doubled sanity reduction when colliding with players during ghost events. Depending on the circumstances, Sanity Medication can be used to counteract this loss, or defensive items like Incense can be brought in sooner",
			"",
			"Onryo",
			"    ●The Onryo's aversion to fire, while a powerful tool against it, does come with risks of its own. However, with sufficient firelights and diligent relighting of them whenever they're extinguished, the Onryo may be kept from hunting indefinitely, which may also serve as identification for the ghost on reduced evidences difficulties. On the other hand, only having one lit firelight within range of it increases the risk of it hunting as a result of blowing it out if said firelight is being re-lit, or other flame sources are being activated nearby. The latter is even riskier if one or more players have died, as the Onryo will blow out firelights in increasing frequency. Players should consider whether having flames lit near the ghost is worth it to prevent hunts, or if they should be disregarded outright and simply play around the Onryo's heightened hunt threshold",
        	"    Identification",
        	"      ●The Onryo can be tested using several ways, by looking for flame priority, preventing hunts with flames, or the three-flame rule:",
        	"        ●Place one crucifix in the ghost's area, then a firelight directly on top",
        	"          ●Note that this is less reliable with Tier II or III crucifixes as they have a range that is greater than or equal to the flame range",
        	"        ●Place two crucifixes in the ghost's area, then multiple firelights spread out and covering the crucifixes' ranges",
        	"      ●When sanity is deemed low enough, keep the firelights lit in a timely manner",
        	"        ●If the crucifix is activated without the firelights going out first, then it is not an Onryo",
        	"        ●If the ghost seems to not hunt with multiple firelights active, or hunts in an area where no firelights are lit, then it may be an Onryo",
        	"      ●The third method is to keep track of the number of flames the ghost blows out, and observe whether the ghost tries to hunt every third flame. Note that igniters and the campfire on the campsites also count towards hunt prevention and starting the ability hunt",
        	"      ●In Sunny Meadows, several lit candles can be found in the chapel, which ghosts can blow out. If the ghost is located there and hunts very early (and is otherwise not a Demon), then it may be an Onryo",
        	"      ●The Onryo is one of two ghosts (the other being the Hantu) for which you can collect all three pieces of evidence without excluding The Mimic. Therefore, before concluding you're dealing with an Onryo, check whether the ghost leaves Ultraviolet evidence. If it does, you have The Mimic instead",
			"",
			"Phantom",
			"    Identification",
        	"      ●A good way to identify a Phantom is to observe whether the ghost is invisible for longer intervals on average during hunts (more than 1 second); this will usually indicate a Phantom",
        	"      ●Taking a photo of a Phantom during a ghost event is also a fair indicator. The main identifier is the ghost disappearing from view, but its vocalizations can still be heard. Additionally, the Phantom will not be visible in the photo, and there will be no interference pattern on the photo",
        	"        ●Note that occasionally, desync may cause the same effect if the picture is taken right at the end of the ghost event, even if the ghost is not a Phantom. This may make this semi-unreliable; checking with other players about whether the photo is completely clear may help you to arrive at a conclusion (though it is not definite)",
        	"        ●This could also happen at the very end of a hunt",
        	"        ●This is better to do with a Summoning Circle or Music Box, since the \"ghost event grace period\" is generally fixed or predictable",
        	"        ●Taking photos of any ghost from a different floor will not produce interference, though for all other ghosts the ghost will still be visible",
        	"        ●Taking a photo of a Goryo during its D.O.T.S state will also produce no interference, and the ghost to be invisible on the picture",
        	"      ●The Phantom's sanity-draining ability could be used to identify it, though this is rarely the main strategy used, as its sanity drain is gradual and not as dramatic as e.g. a Moroi or Jinn's sanity drain, and the player must discern normal sanity drain due to darkness/other factors, from the actual sanity drain caused by a Phantom",
        	"      ●If activity (interactions or hunts) is noted in a room far away from its existing favourite room, and a player has recently been in that far-away room, then the ghosts could be narrowed down to a few ghosts, one of these being the Phantom. Note that some ghost events or custom difficulty settings make it normal for any ghost to move far away in this manner. On the other hand, this is more reliable on big maps, since ghost activity for a generic ghost is more likely to be confined to a small area relative to the map size",
        	"    Survival",
        	"      ●Since the Phantom is visible much less frequently during hunts, it will be harder to track, and players may die as a result of not knowing exactly where it is in time. Specifically, it will be much harder (and not recommended) to loop the ghost, while blinding it using Incense must be treated with caution: stand at the end of a suitably long hallway, and smudge slightly earlier than one would normally do to avoid being caught off guard. Tracking the ghost by its hunting noises is also a considerable strategy when dealing with a Phantom",
			"",
			"Poltergeist",
			"    ●Taking advantage of the Poltergeist's abilities, one can scatter multiple objects around in its room. If one object is seen being flung with force across the room, or multiple objects are thrown at once, then it is probably a Poltergeist. Note that there is some overlap of how hard regular ghosts can throw and how hard a Poltergeist can throw; this trait is harder to discern in small rooms",
        	"      ●It is generally better to build multiple small piles spread out rather than one large pile; if the Poltergeist is not near the pile, it will not affect the pile at all",
        	"    ●It's important to be prudent when suspecting a Poltergeist, and not simply immediately guess it from inconclusive behavior; while it is generally quite active in regards to constantly throwing items, the largely random nature of interactions can cause other ghosts to toss items frequently, matching the activity levels of the Poltergeist at times, especially with more active ghost types like the Oni and Thaye. Likewise, low activity should also not discount the possibility of a Poltergeist",
        	"      ●Remember to turn off the lights to increase activity",
        	"    ●The Poltergeist can also be identified during a hunt. By scattering multiple objects in the investigation area, one can witness the ghost's throwing strength and frequency. Witnessing a throw every 0.5 seconds may indicate a Poltergeist, and it will also throw items with a much stronger force, usually throwing items at high speeds across entire rooms or even between rooms",
			"",
			"Raiju",
			"    ●In order to mitigate the risk of an early hunt, it is best to turn off and/or remove any unneeded electronic equipment from the ghost room; this also prevents the Raiju from harnessing this equipment to empower itself while hunting. Lazily discarding such equipment is a surefire way to make a Raiju extremely dangerous. Additionally, players often have the reflex of discarding electronic items behind them when a hunt starts to not attract the ghost's attention to them; this should be avoided with Raijus to not leave a trail of electronic equipment to power its speed ability. Instead, players should either switch to a non-electronic item or an electronic item that can be turned off",
        	"    ●The Raiju may be readily-identified by being mindful of its speed during a hunt, particularly on small maps, so long as there are active electronic items nearby. If the ghost suddenly and significantly speeds up when roaming (and not chasing particular players), then it is most likely a Raiju; A safe way to check for this is to turn off all other nearby active electronics, drop an active electronic in the player's hiding spot, and during a hunt, check if the ghost's footsteps suddenly speed up when nearby",
			"",
			"Revenant",
			"    ●Due to the Revenant's power, it is critical to hide as soon as possible and the player must exercise extreme caution as to not give away their position during a hunt. A player will not be able to outrun a Revenant for long before it catches up to them. If you are caught running from a Revenant, items such as tier III Salt or Incense can slow it/ward it off for a few seconds, giving you enough time to create some distance between you and the ghost to hide from it. Tier III Sanity Medication is also a possibility, with the infinite sprint allowing you to match the Revenant's speed for 10 seconds to potentially run to safety",
        	"    ●While hiding, listen for the ghost's footsteps; if the footsteps are relatively few and far between while the ghost is nearby, then it is most likely a Revenant. On multiplayer, the Revenant will perform an immediate area search just like any other ghost during hunts. However, it will take a longer time due to its slow movement speed while roaming, so wary players can easily identify it",
			"",
			"Shade",
			"    ●Due to the Shade's aforementioned shyness, the lack of interactions may give it away, or players may become frustrated at the ghost not producing evidence, though this also makes them one of the safer ghosts to encounter, as their shyness also extends to hunts. Try keeping everyone out of the ghost room, as well as using Incense or specific cursed possessions that will increase the chance of the ghost interacting with the environment. Turning off the lights in the ghost's room may also help",
        	"    ●Given the Shade's inability to hunt in a room with players, one can be tested for in Nightmare/Insanity difficulty simply by lowering the average sanity close to zero, and having players stand in the ghost's current room and rooms directly adjacent. If it refuses to hunt or hunts only from a room without players, then it may be a Shade; players should identify nearby escape routes and/or prepare Incense before testing this, as the ghost may hunt in the same room as a player if it's actually not a Shade, which can be very dangerous, especially since a Shade will share two evidence types with a Jinn which is extremely difficult to escape from if the fuse box is on, and a Revenant which is almost certain death if it hunts in the same room as a player",
        	"    ●In singleplayer on Nightmare or Insanity difficulty, one way to identify a Shade is to drop the average sanity to zero, before using two Sanity Medications to restore the player's sanity to 50%, then allowing a small drop of sanity for a few seconds within the investigation area before stopping it via room lights (ideally hiding far away or on a different floor to prevent witnessing ghost events that may drain sanity). A ghost that refuses to hunt at this sanity may indicate that the ghost is a Shade",
        	"    ●If trying to identify a Shade by its hunt sanity threshold, keep in mind a Deogen and aged Thaye will also have low hunting sanity thresholds, though a Deogen is extremely easily distinguishable from its hunting behavior, and a Thaye will initially have a much higher sanity threshold, and be very active in stark contrast to a Shade; a Mare will also have a similarly low sanity threshold when the lights in its ghost room are on; turn it off to raise its sanity threshold and prevent mistaking it for a Shade",
        	"    ●The Shade appearing as a shadow when manifested by cursed possessions is not guaranteed, so seeing a full-body manifestation with them does not rule out a Shade",
			"",
			"Spirit",
			"    ●With no special powers, and a harsher reaction to Incense, Spirits serve as a baseline to measure other ghosts against. With their behavior not being especially unique amongst the ghosts, its overall lack of defining traits can confuse investigators; therefore, unless clear evidence is established, a Spirit can be easily mistaken for another entity",
        	"    ●The main (and usually only) way to test for a Spirit without using evidence is to lower the average sanity to below 50%, and smudge the ghost while it is hunting; if it hunts again before the three minutes is up, it is not a Spirit. If it hunts only after three minutes, it is very likely (though not conclusively) a Spirit. Note that if it hunts within the first minute of the smudge stick being used, then the smudge stick did not work, and the player should attempt to smudge it again. In Nightmare/Insanity difficulty, players should wait for a hunt or a burnt crucifix to confirm that the average sanity is low enough",
        	"    ●A more reliable way to test for Spirit is using incense near the ghost, start a timer and wait for around 160 seconds and then use incense near the ghost again. Using motion sensors can be helpful to determine the position of the ghost. If the ghost hunts within the next 60 seconds of the second incensing (and the ghost was actually hit by both incenses), the ghost is a Spirit. The reason for this is that if another incense is being used while another incense effect is going on, the cleansing effect of the second incense will not be applied",
			"",
			"Thaye",
			"    ●With a Thaye, both interactions and events will be more frequent from the start of the investigation, which may make it easier to locate the ghost. On the other hand, if players do not locate the ghost quickly, especially on large maps, the Thaye may prove to be one of the most dangerous ghosts in the game, as its initial hunt sanity threshold is higher than that of a Demon's, and it is much faster when chasing players during these early hunts. Due to the extreme danger it can pose towards the beginning of a contract, identifying hiding spot locations as soon as possible is very prudent",
        	"    ●Once the ghost has been located, setting up ghost writing books and D.O.T.S Projectors to try and get their evidences early may help, especially on Nightmare where one evidence is hidden; if the ghost gives both Ghost Writing and D.O.T.S Projector, then it is guaranteed to be a Thaye, as the Deogen (the only other ghost to share those two evidence types with it) has guaranteed Spirit Box as one of its pieces of evidence",
        	"    ●One could identify a Thaye through its hunting behaviour; if it is fast early in the contract, slows down over several hunts as players continue spending time near it, and does not gain speed with line-of-sight, then a Thaye is likely. Likewise, if the ghost hunts early and has high levels of activity, but becomes less willing to hunt, interact, or perform ghost events over time, this could also point to a Thaye",
        	"    ●Because ghost events and interactions are more common early on, one should use this opportunity to complete any non-hunt related objectives or fill the journal with photos. Taking the hunt sanity threshold into consideration, if one is careful with how they interact with the ghost, a (near-)perfect contract can be achieved easily. However, if players spend excessive time in the ghost room and cause the Thaye to age quickly, and are not careful with their cursed possession usage to compensate for the loss in activity, completing objectives and obtaining photo evidence could become an annoying (or boring) task",
        	"    ●Hunt-related objectives on the other hand are best left for when the ghost has aged enough that it is no longer a major threat; after aging 4 times, a Thaye will be slower than the player's average speed if continuously sprinting off-cooldown, and after aging 3 more times (for 7 times in total), it will be slower than the player's walking speed, allowing them to be easily looped. Staying in the ghost room for a period of time to age them to safe levels, then using a cursed possession to force a hunt is a safe way of completing many objectives such as escaping the ghost during a hunt",
			"",
			"The Mimic",
			"    ●The Mimic's fundamental nature means that it is unpredictable: it can theoretically have the powers of almost any ghost type at any time, most notably ghost abilities that could enable early hunts. The absolute safest way to handle a Mimic is to treat it as if it had every potential modifier that could increase its aggression, and make sure to utilize if not all, then at least a few tactics that would be used to dissuade attacks from other ghost types:",
        	"      ●Try to minimize speaking when near the ghost (Yokai)",
        	"      ●Turn off electronics that are no longer needed (Raiju)",
        	"      ●Make sure to have active sources of flame in the Ghost Room (Onryo)",
        	"      ●In general, be prepared for the possibility of early hunts (Demon)",
        	"    ●Additionally, it is prudent to have Incense handy, as The Mimic may imitate fast ghosts such as the Revenant or Thaye, or most dangerously imitate the Deogen and require hunters to completely change up their strategy from hiding to looping between hunts, potentially after everyone is already situated at a hiding spot",
        	"    ●The presence of Ghost Orbs with The Mimic means that players have to take care when trying to identify the ghost with three types of evidence, including Ghost Orbs, if there is a potential overlap between The Mimic and another ghost. In particular, players have to be careful if a Hantu/Onryo is identified through evidence; Identifying Ultraviolet, Ghost Orbs, and Freezing Temperatures usually indicates a Hantu, but as The Mimic creates orbs, Spirit Box evidence has to be definitively ruled out before a Hantu can be confirmed; similarly, identifying Spirit Box, Ghost Orbs, and Freezing Temperatures can lead to a mistaken identification of the ghost as an Onryo if the Mimic's Ultraviolet go undiscovered. Players should go further in confirming or eliminating the presence of a fourth type of evidence for these two ghost types",
        	"    ●On reduced-evidence difficulties, however, this can cause The Mimic to be very simple to identify, as The Mimic always produces these orbs, and will appear to go over the set maximum amount of given types of evidence. On difficulties with three evidence, identifying Ultraviolet, Spirit Box and Ghost Orbs also definitively indicates a Mimic, as no other ghost has this evidence combination",
        	"    ●Concerning evidence, if the player notices behavior that normally points to a specific ghost type, but getting types of evidence that they do not have, can bring The Mimic into suspicion, allowing for more focused evidence-gathering, or even give away its identity outright. For example, if the player hears a Banshee's distinctive scream on the Parabolic Microphone, but also gets a Spirit Box response which Banshees do not have, then it's guaranteed to be a Mimic",
			"",
			"The Twins",
			"    ●The Twins' primary strength is its ability to misdirect: its core ability can very easily conjure red herring interactions at parts of the map far from the favourite room where it would give evidence, misleading hunters and delaying their efforts to identify it. This can be especially troublesome on larger maps like Sunny Meadows Mental Institution when trying to locate the favourite room. However, these misleading interactions can be used against it: as the ghost is not physically in the room where these long-ranged interactions occur, evidence past EMF Level 5 cannot be obtained in the area. Using a thermometer and noting a lack of Freezing Temperatures (or, at the very least, notable temperature drops) where ghost activity is noted, or failing to receive Spirit Box responses in rooms near where interactions occurred, are strong signs of the antics of The Twins trying to cause trouble",
        	"    ●Noticing a subtle change in base speed from one hunt to another might indicate that the player is dealing with The Twins. Be sure to avoid confounding factors such as line-of-sight acceleration, or a few other ghosts which may also change base speeds between hunts",
        	"    ●Due to The Twins having two possibilities in regards to angles of attack for any given hunt, it is recommended to plan for the event that The Twins approaches from a planned escape route, such as through use of Incense. Additionally, as The Twins checks for a crucifix in its current location before teleporting to the location of its last large radius interaction if it decides to be fast during the hunt, this can lead the ghost to begin a hunt directly on top of a crucifix, something no other ghost can do (outside of a cursed hunt)",
			"",
			"Wraith",
			"    Identification",
        	"      Salt test",
        	"        ●The Wraith will never step in or disturb a salt pile. If you've had undisturbed salt in the ghost's room for a prolonged period of time, then it could be a Wraith. This can be used to identify a Wraith deterministically: either during a fake hunt ghost event or during a real hunt, place salt in front of where the ghost is about to step. If it does not disturb the salt pile despite passing directly through it, then it is a Wraith",
        	"        ●Placing salt in the center of the Summoning Circle and then summoning the ghost is a good way to spot a Wraith",
        	"        ●Alternatively, one could place a line of salt across a tight access route where the ghost is highly likely to pass through (e.g. a doorway for/in the ghost's room), then place a motion sensor or two on the doorway. If the ghost passes through the motion sensor(s) but never steps in the salt, then it is likely a Wraith. Note that the salt should be tightly packed enough (but not wasteful) such that a ghost that passes through is otherwise virtually guaranteed to step on the salt. Tier II or tier III salt makes this work easier since they are placed in a long pile",
        	"      Teleportation",
        	"        ●The Wraith's teleporting behaviour may give rise to otherwise odd behaviour, such as:",
        	"          ●Interactions happening far away from the favourite room and near where a player currently is (or recently was)",
        	"          ●Seemingly random EMF level 2 or 5 readings which could not have been caused by any interaction, especially far away from the favourite room",
        	"        ●The Banshee and Phantom can also roam/walk (but not teleport) to a player, while The Twins can interact with objects far away, and of these other culprits only the Phantom can create these apparently random EMF readings when moving to a player. Meanwhile, having the roaming frequency setting on Medium or High may induce similar behaviour. If desired, one could use motion sensors to see where the ghost actually is (moving) when it performs such an interaction",
        	"    Hunt",
        	"      ●Although the Wraith teleporting does not by itself trigger a chance to hunt, it could possibly hunt from the location it teleported to if it meets normal hunt requirements. This makes being almost anywhere within the investigation area dangerous once average sanity is low enough; avoid being caught off guard by the Wraith starting a hunt nearby",
        	"    Other",
        	"      ●As Wraiths leave no ultraviolet evidence and does not disturb salt at all, it may be harder to obtain photo rewards with one. Try placing props around the ghost's general location for interaction photos, or utilize a Ouija Board if one spawns. One can also use a Firelight to get interactions",
			"",
			"Yokai",
			"    ●The Yokai is identifiable through two distinctive traits: it will hunt more often when players are together and talking near it, but its ability to detect hidden players during a hunt through voice or electronics will be limited. For example, it will be less likely to follow the player past multiple line-of-sight breaks, and will not be attracted to held electronics unless the Yokai is already very close to the holder",
        	"    ●Although its 80% hunt threshold is theoretically the highest in the game, even greater than that of the Demon and the youngest Thaye, in practice, these extremely early hunts are rare. The Yokai does not have any additional buffs (and is in fact weaker) when hunting, so escaping it will be generally easier",
        	"    ●To test for a Yokai during a hunt, stand at a distance close enough to where the ghost is currently at that is outside of the ghost's immediate line of sight, preferably near a hiding spot, and then turn on an electronic device and/or begin speaking in voice chat. If the ghost does not seek out the player making this noise, especially if it causes disruption of the device and then passes by instead of homing in, then it is likely a Yokai. Note that the electronic disruption range is a little bit greater than the actual range in which most ghosts will actually sense the held device. Care should be taken to not mistake the Yokai's limited hearing and electronics detection sense with the Banshee ignoring players other than its target (if they are inside the investigation area) during a hunt, especially on Nightmare as both these ghosts share two evidence",
        	"    ●The Monkey Paw's wish to unblock a hiding spot will cause the ghost to be able to hear the speech and held electronics of the player who used it from any distance, overriding the Yokai's weakness. This may make trying to test a Yokai from its trait much more difficult, and when playing singleplayer, outright impossible",
        	"    ●In multiplayer, the Yokai becomes mildly more dangerous, as there are more players that could be talking near the Yokai at any given moment, and thus can elevate its hunt sanity threshold more often. Where possible, less experienced players should ideally keep voice communications as short as possible until the ghost room is found. Otherwise, completing objectives can be made easier by encouraging the Yokai to hunt through talking",
			"",
			"Yurei",
			"    ●Generally, keeping doors wide open near the ghost will help one to observe when the Yurei uses its ability",
        	"      ●If the ghost shuts an exit door fully without a ghost event or hunt, then it is very likely a Yurei",
        	"        ●Check for Ultraviolet evidence on the exit door; if it is present on the door, then it is a Mimic that is mimicking a Yurei, not an actual Yurei",
        	"      ●If the ghost shuts any other door fully, then it is very likely (but not definitely) a Yurei",
        	"    ●Any ghost can shut a non-exit door in the exact same manner, including the double touch and delayed shut sound effects. Some points to consider:",
        	"      ●The chance of other ghosts doing this compared to the Yurei is exceedingly low; one may not see this happen in many hours of gameplay",
        	"      ●The Yurei can perform this action without draining sanity, since it is not exclusive to the ability. However, the chance of this happening is much lower than the ability itself happening",
        	"      ●Any ghost can close doors (whether exit or non-exit) during a hunt or a ghost event; one should only look out for the identifier outside of hunts and ghost events",
        	"    ●The Yurei ability does not involve opening doors, only closing",
        	"    ●Rarely, doors can be pushed without actually grabbing them to do so. This can be mistaken for the ghost slamming the door. Use an EMF Reader to check if the ghost actually interacted with the door",
        	"    ●All this being said, it is worth noting that the Yurei's ability is not particularly common, further exacerbated if the Yurei is occupying a room with no valid doors, in which case it will simply never use it. For an alternate strategy if the Yurei refrains from using its ability, one can look out for its special interaction with Incense once its favourite room is found: use it on the ghost, then set up Salt such that the piles cover the exit/doorway to the room. If the ghost passes through the salt and exits the room within 90 seconds of it being affected by the Incense, and without having performed a ghost event to do so, then it is not a Yurei",
        	"    ●Ultimately, however, the Yurei is one of the more evidence-dependent ghost types to conclusively identify, making it particularly difficult to puzzle out on reduced evidences difficulties like Nightmare and Insanity"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Cursed Items",
		"Text":[
			"Cursed possessions are a group of seven powerful, supernatural items that are used to directly interface with the ghost. They can make the ghost appear or provide information, generally at the cost of sanity. Activating or using a cursed possession will immediately cancel the setup phase",
    		"Cursed items:",
			"    ●Music Box",
			"    ●Ouija Board",
			"    ●Voodoo Doll",
			"    ●Haunted Mirror",
			"    ●Summoning Circle",
			"    ●Monkey Paw",
			"    ●Tarot Cards",
			"",
    		"More information can be found in item specified tabs",
			"",
    		"On all default difficulties, except Insanity, one cursed possession is selected at random for every contract. Each item has one dedicated spawn location on a given map. On most maps these spawn locations are scattered around the map, while on a few (namely Brownstone High School, Prison, and Sunny Meadows), they are all within just one room",
			"",
    		"The use of cursed possessions is not mandatory. All objectives can be completed without them, and only a handful of Daily and Weekly Tasks require them outright. Cursed possessions grant players a level of control over the investigative process and the overall flow of a mission, but come with the risk of causing a hunt",
			"",
    		"Cursed possessions generally only work while the player is in the investigation area. All, except for the Summoning Circle and Ouija Board, must be picked up in order to be activated. Cursed possessions require a free hand to pick up, and cannot be stored in the inventory. Instead they drop to the ground when switching to a different item, like the Tripod. The Summoning Circle is the only item that is immovable, and must be interacted with by using either an igniter or a lit firelight",
			"",
    		"A photo can be taken of each spawned cursed possession in a contract. Photos reward up to 5XP and $5 depending on the distance the photo was taken from",
			"",
    		"On Custom difficulty setting, when the \"Friendly ghost\" option is enabled, no hunt will occur after any of the following situations that would normally cause them:",
    		"  ●When the \"Death\" tarot card is drawn",
    		"  ●When the haunted mirror, music box, and Ouija board break",
    		"  ●When the heart pin of the voodoo doll is pushed in",
    		"  ●When the summoning circle-triggered ghost event ends",
    		"  ●When the \"I wish to see the ghost\" and \"I wish to trap the ghost\" effects end, and when \"I wish for knowledge\" is asked of the Monkey Paw",
    		"  ●Additionally, \"The Hanged Man\" tarot card cannot be drawn, except for \"The Fool\" version. All other effects of these cursed possessions work as normal with the setting enabled"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Haunted Mirror",
		"Text":[
			"The haunted mirror is a cursed possession that can be used to locate the favourite room",
			"",
    		"The mirror can be toggled while inside the investigation area. It will be automatically deactivated when brought outside",
			"",
    		"When activated, the haunted mirror will show a view of a part of the favourite room as a sweeping panorama, allowing players to locate the room by cross-reference. This view is a live feed of the room, so any lights turned on, items moved, and equipment or players present in the room will be visible. The only exception is the player's own model",
    		"The mirror also gives a faint glow to see into the favourite room, which all players, including the user, can see, even outside of the mirror. This can help confirm rooms, as well as help other players know where the favourite room is",
			"",
    		"Each usage of the haunted mirror drains sanity at a rate of 7.5%/s, or 20% per use, whichever is higher. This means that using the mirror for less than ~2.67 seconds will still drain at least 20% sanity. This includes the animation of raising, but not lowering, the mirror",
			"",
    		"The mirror will crack visually and audibly, triggering a cursed hunt if:",
    		"  ●The user's sanity reaches 0% while looking into the mirror",
    		"  ●A player activates the mirror while below 20% sanity",
			"",
    		"Once broken, the mirror will lower and cannot be used again"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Monkey Paw",
		"Text":[
			"The Monkey Paw is a cursed possession that can be used to grant the player wishes",
			"",
    		"The Monkey Paw grants up to a certain number of wishes depending on the difficulty reward multiplier:",
    		"  ●0x – 1.99x: 5 wishes",
    		"  ●2x – 2.99x: 4 wishes",
    		"  ●3x or higher: 3 wishes",
			"",
    		"The Monkey Paw can only be used within the investigation area, and players can choose to either use voice chat or a text-based UI to make wishes",
    		"  ●If using voice chat, the Monkey Paw will grant any recognized wish made by the player",
    		"  ●If using the text-based UI, the UI will appear upon pressing the Primary Use key. Players can then click to select one of 3 categories, then select a category-specific wish, or exit the UI by pressing the Primary Use key again",
			"",
    		"Every wish will come with a negative side effect, with the severity depending on the wish",
			"",
    		"If the Monkey Paw recognizes a valid phrase, regardless if it's a valid wish or not, or when entering/exiting the investigation area, its fingers will twitch. When a wish is being granted, one of its fingers will bend. When all fingers are bent, the Monkey Paw cannot be used anymore",
			"",
    		"Most wishes can be found on tags scattered in Sunny Meadows. Picking a tag up (except for weather and anything wishes) will record the wish in the journal. There is no need to find the wishes to use the Monkey Paw. Each wish can only be used once per contract",
    		"All possible wishes can be fount in Monkey Paw Phrases tab"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Music Box",
		"Text":[
			"The music box is a cursed possession that can be used to pinpoint the location of the ghost, though one is at considerable risk if one is careless with it",
			"",
    		"When picked up, the music box will open (this does not mean it has been activated). The music box can then be activated using the Primary Use key. Doing so will end the setup phase early if it is ongoing. The music box cannot be activated during a hunt, and can only be used once",
    		"Once activated, if the ghost is within 20 metres of the music box, it will sing along, broadcasting its current location while remaining invisible",
    		"If the music box is within 5 metres of the ghost, it will trigger a ghost event where the ghost manifests and begins to walk towards the box. The music box can be handheld or placed on the floor, the latter being the only safe way to discard the box without triggering a cursed hunt before the ghost event. In all cases, the box will close once it stops playing",
			"",
    		"While using the music box, a cursed hunt will be initiated if one of the following occurs:",
    		"  ●The ghost is within a short distance of the player holding the box",
    		"  ●The ghost walks during the box-triggered ghost event for more than 5 seconds",
    		"  ●The box is thrown while the tune is playing",
    		"  ●The player reaches or is already at 0% sanity",
			"",
    		"A standard hunt will occur instead if:",
    		"  ●The ghost initiates a hunt on its own due to meeting normal hunt conditions rather than the box itself, causing the hunt",
			"",
    		"By avoiding all of the above, it is possible to use the music box without causing any hunt:",
    		"  ●Ensuring that no one is inside the investigation area when the above occurs",
    		"  ●When the music ends without the ghost ever being near enough, the music box will automatically close",
    		"  ●If the player brings the music box near the ghost only just before the music stops playing, the ghost will simply disappear when the music ends",
			"",
    		"Being within ~2.5 metres of an actively functioning music box drains the player's sanity at a rate of 2.5%/s, totaling approximately 75% if the entire song is listened to. This applies to all players within the range, regardless of who activated the music box",
			"",
    		"As long as the box-triggered ghost event has not occurred, an active music box will not prevent regular ghost activity, which means that the ghost can continue to roam, interact with objects, use its abilities, or even perform regular ghost events and hunts. While the ghost will not actively walk towards the music box if it is out of range, it can happen to roam close enough to trigger the ghost event",
			"",
    		"If the music box is brought outside, the box will close. If the music is also playing, the sanity drain will pause, but the music will technically continue. It will reopen and function normally once the music box is brought inside again"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Ouija Board",
		"Text":[
			"The Ouija Board is a cursed possession. It can be used to communicate with the ghost at the cost of sanity",
			"",
    		"The Ouija Board can be activated by interacting with it if the player is not holding it, or toggling it directly while holding the board. The planchette will drop down onto the board, signifying that the board has been activated",
			"",
    		"Players can choose to either use voice chat or a text-based UI to ask questions",
    		"  ●If using voice chat, once activated, the Ouija Board will respond to voice input within 5 metres of it",
    		"  ●If using the text-based UI, the UI will appear upon activation. Players can then click to select one of 3 categories, then select a category-specific question, or say goodbye. The player cannot exit the UI without saying goodbye or the board breaking, but the board can be thrown out while holding it",
			"",
    		"The player asking the question must be within the investigation area to ask questions, but does not have to be in the ghost room (nor the ghost's current room)",
			"",
    		"If the question is recognised, the planchette will move to answer the question, and an EMF Level 2 reading will be generated around the Ouija Board. If the ghost has EMF Level 5 as evidence, there is a 25% chance for this to instead be the reading per question asked",
    		"All possible questions can be fount in Ouija Board Phrases tab",
			"",
    		"Whether the ghost is \"shy\" or not does not affect its ability to respond via the Ouija Board. If the Ouija Board is asked a question via voice but nothing happens, then either the board is not activated or the phrase was not recognised. There is a cooldown of ~2.5 seconds for clicking via text-based UI, while there is no cooldown time for voice chat other than any voice recognition limitations",
			"",
    		"To deactivate the Ouija Board, any nearby player must say \"Goodbye\" which will make the planchette disappear. The Ouija Board can then be left alone safely. The Ouija Board will also deactivate automatically if the player holds the board and exits the investigation area",
			"",
    		"The Ouija Board will break if any of the following occurs:",
    		"  ●There is no player within 5 metres of a still-active board",
    		"  ●The player currently asking questions has less sanity than required to \"pay\" for the question",
    		"  ●The phrase \"hide and seek\" (or similar) is said",
			"",
    		"The board will burn and break itself up, initiating a cursed hunt if any player is inside the building"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Summoning Circle",
		"Text":[
			"The summoning circle is a cursed possession that is used to summon the ghost. This can be used to get a ghost photo, as well as facilitate the completion of several Objectives",
			"",
		    "The summoning circle can be used by lighting all five red candles by aiming at them and by pressing the Secondary Use key with a lit igniter or a lit firelight. Each lit candle deducts 16% sanity from nearby players",
			"",
		    "Summoning circle candles can be blown out by the ghost, in the same way as regular firelights. However, they cannot self-extinguish except when lit while the player has less than 16% sanity. Relighting an extinguished candle will drain 16% sanity again for nearby players",
			"",
		    "Once all five candles are lit, the ghost is summoned and fully materialized, except a Shade, which has a chance of appearing as a transparent shadow. The summoned ghost stays motionless for 5 seconds, unable to kill players. This stationary period is considered a ghost event. However, the front door will lock immediately after lighting the last candle. After this event, the lights in the summoning circle's room will turn off and the ghost will immediately initiate a cursed hunt on the spot, without an additional 1-second grace period",
			"",
		    "Once the summoning circle is activated, it cannot be used again",
			"",
		    "In the following cases, there will be no \"ghost event\" period; the cursed hunt will immediately begin, potentially killing players on the spot:",
		    "  ●If the player has 16% sanity or less when lighting the last candle",
		    "    ●There will be a 1-second grace period before the hunt starts",
		    "    ●If the Friendly Ghost difficulty option is turned on, the candles will extinguish in succession instead of hunting",
		    "  ●If the last candle is lit while a hunt is ongoing (this will not restart the current hunt's timer)"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Tarot Cards",
		"Text":[
			"Tarot cards are a cursed possession that can trigger various random effects on both the player and nearby ghosts",
			"",
    		"Tarot cards can be picked up and one card can be drawn at a time. Tarot cards can only be drawn while inside the investigation area",
			"",
    		"Each Tarot cards deck contains 10 randomly generated cards. There are 10 possible card types the player can draw, each having a unique effect on either the player or the ghost. After being used, each card will burn up and vanish in a uniquely-colored flame. Each card type has a different, independent chance of being drawn, so some card types can be drawn multiple times or not at all in a single deck",
			"",
    		"Once all ten cards have been used, no more will be given to the player for that contract. When the deck is used up, all future hunts will also be extended by 20 seconds, even if no Death card was drawn prior",
			"",
    		"Card List:",
    		"  The Tower",
    		"    ●Effect: Doubles all ghost activity for 20 seconds",
    		"    ●Burn Color: Blue",
    		"    ●Draw Chance: 20%",
			"",
			"  The Wheel of Fortune",
        	"    ●Effect: The individual player gains 25% sanity if the card burns green, or loses 25% sanity if the card burns red",
        	"    ●Burn Color: Green (sanity gain), Red (sanity loss)",
        	"    ●Draw Chance: 20%",
			"",
    		"  The Fool",
    		"    ●Effect: Randomly selects another card to appear as, before turning into The Fool as it burns. No effect is applied when drawing this card",
    		"    ●Burn Color: Light Purple",
    		"    ●Draw Chance: 17%, 100% during hunts",
			"",
    		"  The Devil",
    		"    ●Effect: Triggers a Ghost Event towards the nearest player to the ghost",
    		"    ●Burn Color: Pink",
    		"    ●Draw Chance: 20%",
			"",
    		"  Death",
    		"    ●Effect: Triggers a cursed hunt",
    		"    ●Burn Color: Purple",
    		"    ●Draw Chance: 10%",
			"",
    		"  The Hermit",
    		"    ●Effect: Teleports the ghost back to its ghost room and traps it there for 1 minute. This does not affect hunts and ghost events",
    		"    ●Burn Color: Cyan",
    		"    ●Draw Chance: 10%",
			"",
    		"  The Sun",
    		"    ●Effect: Fully restores the individual player's sanity to 100%",
    		"    ●Burn Color: Yellow",
    		"    ●Draw Chance: 5%",
			"",
    		"  The Moon",
    		"    ●Effect: Instantly drops the individual player's sanity to 0%",
    		"    ●Burn Color: White",
    		"    ●Draw Chance: 5%",
			"",
    		"  The High Priestess",
    		"    ●Effect: Revives a randomly chosen dead player at their corpse. If no one is currently dead, it will revive the next player who dies. Multiple cards do not stack",
    		"    ●Burn Color: Light Yellow",
    		"    ●Draw Chance: 2%",
			"",
    		"  The Hanged Man",
    		"    ●Effect: Instantly kills the player. It is impossible to draw the real card if the 'Friendly Ghost' is on",
    		"    ●Burn Color: N/A",
    		"    ●Draw Chance: 1%"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Voodoo Doll",
		"Text":[
			"The voodoo doll is a cursed possession used to force the ghost to perform interactions",
			"",
    		"Interacting with the voodoo doll will cause one of the 10 pins stuck in the doll to be pushed into it at random. This will cause the ghost to perform an interaction, and will drop the user's sanity by 5%. These forced interactions can include EMF Level 5 and Ultraviolet sources, but not the Ghost Writing Book nor the D.O.T.S. Projector",
			"",
    		"If the heart pin is pressed down, the user's sanity will drain by 10%, and the ghost will initiate a cursed hunt. If the user's sanity is at 0%, all remaining pins will be pushed in and a cursed hunt will also occur"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Phrases",
		"Text":[
			"Give us a sign",
    		"Do something",
    		"Let us know you are here",
    		"Make a noise",
    		"Make a sound",
    		"Can you make a sound?",
    		"Open a door",
    		"Open the door",
    		"Open this door",
    		"Turn on the light",
    		"Turn off the light",
    		"Show us your presence",
    		"Show your presence",
    		"Show me",
    		"Show us",
    		"Knock something",
    		"Throw something",
    		"Can you speak?",
    		"Can you speak to us?",
    		"Can we speak?",
    		"Would like to speak to you",
    		"Can I ask you?",
    		"May I ask you?",
    		"Would you like to talk?",
    		"Talk to me",
    		"Talk to us",
    		"Scream",
    		"Do you know who we are?",
    		"We mean you no harm",
    		"We are friends",
    		"Is there anyone with me?",
    		"Is there anyone here?",
    		"Are there any ghosts?",
    		"Are you male or female?",
    		"Are there children here?",
    		"Are you alone?",
    		"Are you the only one here?",
    		"Are you here all the time?",
    		"Are you waiting?",
    		"Are you happy?",
    		"Is there anything that I can do?",
    		"Is this your home?",
    		"Do you want us to leave?",
    		"I'm scared",
    		"I am scared",
    		"Scared",
    		"Scare",
    		"Scary",
    		"Spooky",
    		"Horror",
    		"Fright",
    		"Frighten",
    		"Panic",
    		"Hide",
    		"Run"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Spirit Box Phrases",
		"Text":[
			"Aggresion-related questions:",
    		"  ●What do you want?",
    		"  ●Why are you here?",
    		"  ●Do you want to hurt us?",
    		"  ●Are you angry?",
    		"  ●Do you want us here?",
    		"  ●Shall we leave?",
    		"  ●Should we leave?",
    		"  ●Do you want us to leave?",
    		"  ●What should we do?",
    		"  ●Can we help?",
    		"  ●Is anything wrong?",
    		"  ●Are you friendly?",
			"",
    		"Location-related question:",
    		"  ●Where are you?",
    		"  ●Are you close?",
    		"  ●Can you show yourself?",
    		"  ●Give us a sign",
    		"  ●Let us know you are here",
    		"  ●Show yourself",
    		"  ●Can you talk?",
    		"  ●Speak to us",
    		"  ●Are you here?",
    		"  ●Are you with us?",
    		"  ●Anybody with us?",
    		"  ●Is anyone here?",
    		"  ●Anybody in the room?",
    		"  ●Anybody here?",
    		"  ●Is there a Spirit here?",
    		"  ●Is there a Ghost here?",
    		"  ●What is your location?",
			"",
    		"Age-related question:",
    		"  ●How old are you?",
    		"  ●How young are you?",
    		"  ●What is your age?",
    		"  ●When were you born?",
    		"  ●Are you a child?",
    		"  ●Are you old?",
    		"  ●Are you young?"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Monkey Paw Phrases",
		"Text":[
			"Ghost:",
    		"  ●I wish to see the ghost",
    		"   Effect: Triggers summoning. When ghost disapears cursed hunt begins, user's vision is obscured with a dark fog",
    		"  ●I wish for activity",
    		"  ●I wish the ghost would do something",
    		"   Effect: Doubles all ghost activity for 2 minutes. The fuse box will break permanently, and the exit door will be locked for 2 minutes",
    		"  ●I wish the ghost was trapped",
    		"  ●I wish to trap the ghost",
    		"   Effect: Teleports ghost to its favourite room and locks all doors for 1 minute. During this period, the ghost cannot hunt, roam, or use abilities. This will also lock all doors of the user's current room for 1 minute, including the exit door if it's connected. After this period, all doors will unlock and the ghost will start a standard hunt. There is a 25% chance for doors to unlock only after the grace period",
			"",
    		"Player:",
    		"  ●I wish for sanity",
    		"  ●I wish to be sane",
    		"   Effect: Sets every player to 50% sanity. Passive sanity drain will be multiplied by 1.5 for the remainder of the contract, and the ghost's favourite room will be set to a random room",
    		"  ●I wish to be safe",
    		"   Effect: Unblocks the nearest hiding spot. The lights in the user's current room will shatter, and for the rest of the contract the ghost will be able to hear the player who called upon the wish and sense their active electronics at any distance",
    		"  ●I wish to leave",
    		"   Effect: Unlocks all exit doors at any time, including during hunts. The user's speed will be reduced before slowly returning over 5 seconds. Their vision will also be reduced for this duration",
			"",
    		"Other:",
    		"  ●I wish for life",
    		"  ●I wish to revive my friend",
    		"   Effect: Revives a deceased player, with a 50% chance of causing the wisher's death. This wish cannot be used if no player is dead",
    		"  ●I wish for knowledge",
    		"   Effect: Eliminates one incorrect piece of evidence and its associated ghost types from the journal. The ghost then initiates a cursed hunt in proximity to the user. During this period, the user's vision is covered in a dark fog, and their hearing will be muffled. These effects persist until either death or the end of the contract",
    		"  ●I wish for [weather]",
    		"    Clear Sky",
    		"    Fog",
    		"    Rain",
    		"    Snow",
    		"    Sunrise",
    		"   Effect: Changes the weather as desired. This will cause a temporary blindness effect while the weather changes and deduct 25% sanity from the user. Wishing for rain has a 50/50 chance of granting either light or heavy rain. This wish cannot be used if the user has less than 25% sanity",
    		"  ●I wish for anything",
    		"   Effect: Randomly grants one of the (unused) wishes above"
		]
	},
	{
		"Title":"Quija Board Phrases",
		"Text":[
			"Board deactivation:",
    		"  ●Goodbye",
			"",
    		"Location:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 50%",
    		"   ●Where are you?",
    		"   ●What is your favorite room?",
    		"   ●Where is your room?",
    		"   ●What is your room?",
    		"    Answer: Room's name",
			"",
    		"Non-specific:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 20%",
    		"   ●Are you here?",
    		"   ●Are you close?",
    		"    Answer: Yes/No",
			"",
    		"Age:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 5%",
    		"   ●How old are you?",
    		"   ●What is your age?",
    		"   ●Are you old?",
    		"   ●Are you young?",
    		"    Answer: 10-90",
			"",
    		"Death:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 5%",
    		"   ●How long have you been dead?",
    		"   ●How many years ago did you die?",
    		"   ●How long have you been here?",
    		"   ●How long ago did you die?",
    		"   ●When did you die?",
    		"   Answer: 50-1000",
			"",
    		"Room count:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 20%",
    		"   ●How many are in this room?",
    		"   ●How many people are in this room?",
    		"   ●How many people are here?",
    		"   ●How many ghosts are in this room?",
    		"   ●How many ghosts are here?",
    		"   ●Are you alone?",
    		"   ●Are we alone?",
    		"   ●Who is here?",
    		"   ●Who is in this room?",
    		"   ●How many ghosts are present?",
    		"   ●How many people are present?",
    		"    Answer: ?",
			"",
    		"Sanity:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 5%",
    		"   ●What is my sanity?",
    		"   ●How sane am I?",
    		"    Answer: >80% Healthy",
    		"      60%-80% Good",
    		"      40%-60% Average",
    		"      20%-40% Bad",
    		"      <20% Awful",
    		"   ●How crazy am I?",
    		"   ●How insane am I?",
    		"    Answer: >50% Not Very",
    		"      25%-50% Very",
    		"      <25% Insane",
    		"   ●Am I insane?",
    		"    Answer: >90% No",
			"      20%-90% Maybe",
			"      <20% Insane",
			"",
    		"Method of death:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 5%",
    		"   ●How did you die?",
    		"    Answer: Accident",
			"      Drowned",
    		"      Choked",
    		"      Murder",
    		"      Shot",
    		"      Fell",
    		"      Slipped",
			"",
    		"Bone location:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 20%",
    		"   ●Where is the bone?",
    		"   ●Where did you die?",
    		"   ●Where is your body?",
    		"    Answer: Room where bone is located",
			"",
    		"Hide and seek:",
    		"  Sanity drain: None",
    		"   ●(Do you want to play) hide and seek?",
    		"    Answer: Counts down from 5 to 0, before breaking and starting cursed hunt",
			"",
    		"Feeling:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 5%",
    		"   ●How do you feel?",
    		"   ●Are you okay?",
    		"   ●How are you?",
    		"    Answer: Angry",
			"      Cold",
    		"      Empty",
    		"      Excited",
    		"      Hurt",
    		"      Lonely",
    		"      Sad",
    		"      Scared",
    		"      Sick",
    		"      Strong",
    		"      Weak",
			"",
    		"Purpose:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 5%",
    		"   ●Why are you here?",
    		"   ●What do you want?",
    		"    Answer: Hatred",
			"      Kill",
			"      Lonely",
			"      Lost",
			"      Love",
			"      Peace",
			"      Revenge",
			"      Scared",
			"      Trapped",
			"      Vengeance",
			"      You",
			"",
    		"Joke:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 5%",
			"   ●Knock knock",
    		"    Answer: Whos there",
    		"  ●Marco",
    		"    Answer: Polo",
			"",
    		"Shyness:",
    		"  Sanity drain: 20%",
    		"   ●Do you respond to everyone?",
    		"    Answer: Yes/No"
		]
	}
]